This is a great book of poems that illustrates how different people experience the full moon all around the world. We are faced with the fascinating fact that the same moon makes an appearance for everyone on earth. The people in the story express feelings, traditions, and beliefs they have surrounding the time of the full moon. Readers get to put themselves in the shoes of those around the world. It shows how we are all connected, yet very different. Therefore, the focus is on the full moon as well as different cultures around the world. The book also provides a world map that highlights the different countries that are represented in the story.Lexile shows that this book is appropriate for children that are 8-9 years old. I agree with this rating as I think it would be great to use in a third grade lesson relating to North Carolina standards:RL.3.2 Recount stories, including fables, folktales, and myths from diverse cultures; determine the central message, lesson, or moral and explain how it is conveyed through key details in the text.RL.3.5 Refer to parts of stories, dramas, and poems when writing or speaking about a text, usingterms such as chapter, scene, and stanza; describe how each successive part builds on earlier sections.3.E.1 Recognize the major components and patterns observed in the earth/moon/sun system.In my third grade classroom, I would read this aloud to model poetry characteristics while students are studying the phases of the moon. This should be read before they observe the full moon. After reading, we would discuss the characteristics of the writing that made them poems. We would discuss rhyming and figurative language then review where the author used those concepts within the story. Students would be instructed to view the full moon that night and note the time they view it. The following day, they would be prompted to write their own poem about their experience viewing the moon. They would create a title for their poem and specify the town they were in when they viewed it along with the time they viewed it. I would collect their poems and combine them to make a class book of their collection of poems to look like A Full Moon is Rising. We would then read their poems, giving them the opportunity to read their own poem when we turn to that page. A discussion would follow to note the poetry characteristics they used, the distance and movement of the moon, how it connects us, and how similar or different their experiences were. It would be fun for them to acknowledge that they were all looking at the same moon at the exact or close to the same time.