‘What’s the writing of poetry but a confession that life isn’t enough?What’s art but a way to forget that life is just this?’-Álvaro De CamposFernando Pessoa(1888-1935) was a living literary masterpiece. Writing in Portuguese, French, and English, Pessoa turned out a staggering, and seemingly endless collection of poetry, translations, literary criticisms and numerous essays on politics, religion and philosophy, as well as the highly praised and highly ponderousThe Book of Disquiet, all under a vast collection of heteronyms. Coined by Pessoa, Heteronyms are a literary device somewhat like an extension to the concept of a pseudonyms, being fully fleshed-out character, each with their own unique styles, beliefs, and themes as well as a complete biography through which Pessoa wrote as opposed to simply being a false name ¹ Through 81 confirmed heteronyms (the complete list is contained below), Pessoa rocked the literary climate of his native Portugal, being credited as the genius behind the three greatest Portuguese poets of his time: Alberto Caeiro, Álvaro de Campos, Ricardo Reis.Richard Zenith’s introduction to this collection offers an interesting, in-depth look into the life of Pessoa, from his political activism to philosophical musings, and the ideas and inspirations behind the creation of his most famous heteronyms. Pessoa evinced literary greatness very early on in life. writing his first poem at age 7 to his mother:Here I am in PortugalIn the lands where I was born.However much I love themI love you even morespending his early childhood creating fake newspapers for his own enjoyment (written by a fake group of journalists whom he wrote biographies for), and publishing short stories and poems through the heteronym, Charles Robert Anon, at age 16. As Pessoa grew as a writer, he began to create more and more identities to suit his needs. ‘Each of my dreams,’ writes Pessoa as Bernardo Soares inThe Book of Disquiet,as soon as I start dreaming it, is immediately incarnated in another person, who is then the one dreaming it, and not I To create, I’ve destroyed myself…. I’m the empty stage where various actors act out various plays.’ Much like a character actor, Pessoa was able to take on the personality of endless characters, leaving so little trace of himself that people often questioned if it was possible for someone to be able to express one set of opinions and style, yet concurrently write such opposing ideas from another heteronym (although many of the critics debating this or publishing analytical essays on the poets turned out to actually be Pessoa again). Pessoa often experimented with automatic writing to ‘find’ new heteronyms, and after studying heavily into astrology, he began to assign astrological signs to his heteronyms to build their personalities. Zenith collects the ‘best of’ from each of Pessoa’s major poets in this collection to exemplify the diversity and sheer genius of Pessoa.Alberto CaeiroIf they want me to have mysticism, okay, I’ve got it.I’m a mystic, but only in my body,My soul is simple and doesn’t think.My mysticism is not wanting to know.It’s living and not thinking about it.I don’t know what Nature is: I sing her.I live on top of a knollIn a lonely whitewashed house,And that’s my definition.Caeiro, an Aries, was written to be a simple country dweller with no education and a desire to perceive life simply as it is without any thought getting in the way to taint it: ‘to know how to see without thinking, to know how to see when seeing and not think when seeing nor see when thinking’. Born in 1889 and dying in 1915, Caeiro is said by Pessoa to have come to him ‘in a kind of ecstasy’ that allowed him to write the majority of Caeiro’s body of work within a 2 week period.O ship setting out on a distant voyage,Why don't I miss you the way other people doAfter you've vanished from sight?Because, when I don't see you, you cease to exist.And if I feel nostalgia for what doesn't exist,The feeling is in relationship to nothing.It's not the ship but our own selves that we miss.Ricardo ReisI want the flower you are, not the one you give.Why refuse me what I don't ask of you?You'll have time to refuseAfter you've given.Flower, be a flower to me! If, ungenerous, you're pluckedBy the hand of the ill-omened sphinx, you'll wander foreverAs an absurd shadow,Seeking what you never gave.Reis, born in 1887 ², was a physician and immersed in the Greek classics, writing epic, metered odes and sonnets about fate. Reis questions religion (often preferring to believe in the Greek gods than his own Christian faith) mocks man, and seeks only for truth.Whatever ceases is death, and the deathIs ours if it ceases for us. A bushWithers, and with itGoes part of my life.In all I’ve observed, part of me remained.Whatever I’ve seen, when it passes I passed,Memory not distinguishingWhat I’ve seen from what I’ve been.---Let my fate deny me everything exceptto see it, for I, an unstrictStoic, wish to delight in every letterof the sentence engraved by DestinyÁlvaro de CamposI got off the trainAnd said good-bye to the man I’d met.We’d been together for eighteen hoursAnd had a pleasant conversation,Fellowship in the journey,And I was sorry to get off, sorry to leaveThis chance friend whose name I never learned.I felt my eyes water with tears…Every farewell is a death.Yes, every farewell is a deathIn the train that we call lifeWe are all chance events in one another’s lives,And we all feel sorry when it’s time to get off.All that is human moves me, because I am a man.All that is human moves me not because I have an affinityWith human ideas or human doctrinesBut because of my infinite fellowship with humanity itself.The main who hated to go,Crying with nostalgiaFor the house where she’d been mistreated….All of this, inside my heart, is death and the world’s sadness.All of this lives, because it dies, inside my heart.And my heart is a little larger than the entire universe.How amazing is that!?De Campos is my favorite of the heteronyms collected in this book. Born in 1890, De Campos was created to be the antithesis of Pessoa’s true self. Known for writing scathing criticisms, long poems (which later became very short poems in which he expresses sadness for not being able to create the long poems of his youth) and political activism, De Campos has the most personality and public life of the heteronyms. Often Pessoa would show up in character as De Campos to readings or lectures where Pessoa Himself had been scheduled and proceed to bad mouth the Pessoa Himself, which Zenith points out, didn’t always sit well with the public.I’m gonna throw a bomb into destiny.I’m nothing.I’ll never be anything.I can’t wish to be anything.Even so, I have in me all the dreams of the world.Pessoa HimselfThe poet is a fakerWho’s so good at his actHe even fakes the painOf pain he feels in fact.And those who read his wordsWill feel in what he wroteNeither of the pains he hasBut just the one they don’t.And so around its trackThis thing called the heart winds,A little clockwork trainTo entertain our minds.Interestingly enough, Pessoa as himself was the least famous of his major poets. Much of his self poetry is spent discussing the ideas of the ‘self’ and consciousness. He wrote several poems in English, which were only marginally received. As he had taught himself English at a young age by reading his favorite writers, Poe, Shakespeare, Keats, Milton, Arthur Conan Doyle and Dickens among others, his English built itself to have a slightly outdated, stuffy academic feel to it that was noted in many of his English poem reviews. However, it was also mentioned that his Elizabethan style felt extremely authentic.All beauty is a dream, even if it existsfor beauty is always more than it isthe beauty I see in youisn’t here, next to me.What I see in you lives where I dream,Far away from here. If you exist,I only know itBecause I just dreamed it.Beauty is a music which, heardIn dreams, overflowed into life.But it’s not exactly life:It’s the life that dreamed.5/5¹ While most instances of his are simply considered pseudonyms,Søren Kierkegaardhad several heteronyms which he used to distance the opinions in certain books or essays of his from the major body of work.² The idea that Reis continued living after the death of Pessoa is explored in Saramago’s novelThe Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis, in which Lydia, a woman frequently mentioned in Reis poetry, is a significant character.THE LIST OF PESSOA’S HETERONYMS:1. Fernando Antonio Nogueira Pessoa - Himself - Commercial correspondent in Lisbon2. Fernando Pessoa - Orthonym - Poet and prose writer3. Fernando Pessoa - Autonym - Poet and prose writer4. Fernando Pessoa - Heteronym - Poet; a pupil of Alberto Caeiro5. Alberto Caeiro - Heteronym - Poet; author of O guardador de Rebanhos, O Pastor Amoroso and Poemas inconjuntos; master of heteronyms Fernando Pessoa, Álvaro de Campos, Ricardo Reis and António Mora.6. Ricardo Reis - Heteronym - Poet and prose writer, author of Odes and texts on the work of Alberto Caeiro7. Federico Reis - Heteronym / Para-heteronym - Essayist; brother of Ricardo Reis, upon whom he writes8. Álvaro de Campos - Heteronym - Poet and prose writer; a pupil of Alberto Caeiro9. António Mora - Heteronym - Philosopher and sociologist; theorist of Neopaganism; a pupil of Alberto Caeiro10. Claude Pasteur - Heteronym / Semi-heteronym - French translator of Cadernos de reconstrução pagã conducted by António Mora11. Bernardo Soares - Heteronym / Semi-heteronym - Poet and prose writer; author of The Book of Disquiet.12. Vicente Guedes - Heteronym / Semi-heteronym - Translator, poet; director of Ibis Press; author of a paper13. Gervasio Guedes - Heteronym / Semi-heteronym - Author of the text “A Coroação de Jorge Quinto”14. Alexander Search - Heteronym - Poet and short story writer15. Charles James Search - Heteronym / Para-heteronym - Translator and essayist; brother of Alexander Search16. Jean-Méluret of Seoul - Heteronym / Proto-heteronym - French poet and essayist17. Rafael Baldaya - Heteronym - Astrologer; author of Tratado da Negação and Princípios de Metaphysica Esotérica18. Barão de Teive - Heteronym - Prose writer; author of Educação do Stoica and Daphnis e Chloe19. Charles Robert Anon - Heteronym / Semi-heteronym - Poet, philosopher and story writer20. A. A. Crosse - Pseudonym / Proto-heteronym - Author and puzzle-solver21. Thomas Crosse - Heteronym / Proto-heteronym - English epic character/occultist, popularized in Portuguese culture22. I. I. Crosse - Heteronym / Para-heteronym -23. David Merrick - Heteronym / Semi-heteronym - Poet, storyteller and playwright24. Lucas Merrick - Heteronym / Para-heteronym - Short story writer; perhaps brother David Merrick25. Pêro Botelho - Heteronym / Pseudonym - Short story writer and author of letters26. Abilio Quaresma - Heteronym / Character / Meta-heteronym - Character inspired by Pêro Botelho and author of short detective stories27. Inspector Guedes - Character / Meta-heteronym(?) - Character inspired by Pêro Botelho and author of short detective stories28. Uncle Pork - Pseudonym / Character - Character inspired by Pêro Botelho and author of short detective stories29. Frederick Wyatt - Alias / Heteronym - English poet and prose writer30. Rev. Walter Wyatt - Character - Possibly brother of Frederick Wyatt31. Alfred Wyatt - Character - Another brother of Frederick Wyatt and resident of Paris32. Maria José - Heteronym / Proto-heteronym - Wrote and signed “A Carta da Corcunda para o Serralheiro”33. Chevalier de Pas - Pseudonym / Proto-heteronym - Author of poems and letters34. Efbeedee Pasha - Heteronym / Proto-heteronym - Author of humoristic stories35. Faustino Antunes / A. Moreira - Heteronym / Pseudonym - Psychologist and author of Ensaio sobre a Intuição36. Carlos Otto - Heteronym / Proto-heteronym - Poet and author of Tratado de Lucta Livre37. Michael Otto - Pseudonym / Para-heteronym - Probably brother of Carlos Otto who was entrusted with the translation into English of Tratado de Lucta Livre38. Sebastian Knight - Proto-heteronym / Alias -39. Horace James Faber - Heteronym / Semi-heteronym - English short story writer and essayist40. Navas - Heteronym / Para-heteronym - Translated Horace James Faber in Portuguese41. Pantaleão - Heteronym / Proto-heteronym - Poet and prose writer42. Torquato Fonseca Mendes da Cunha Rey - Heteronym / Meta-heteronym - Deceased author of a text Pantaleão decided to publish43. Joaquim Moura Costa - Proto-heteronym / Semi-heteronym - Satirical poet; Republican activist; member of O Phosphoro44. Sher Henay - Proto-heteronym / Pseudonym - Compiler and author of the preface of a sensationalist anthology in English45. Anthony Gomes - Semi-heteronym / Character - Philosopher; author of “Historia Cómica do Affonso Çapateiro”46. Professor Trochee - Proto-heteronym / Pseudonym - Author of an essay with humorous advice for young poets47. Willyam Links Esk - Character - Signed a letter written in English on April 13, 190548. António de Seabra - Pseudonym / Proto-heteronym - Literary critic49. João Craveiro - Pseudonym / Proto-heteronym - Journalist; follower of Sidonio Pereira50. Tagus - Pseudonym - Collaborator in Natal Mercury (Durban, South Africa)51. Pipa Gomes - Draft heteronym - Collaborator in O Phosphoro52. Ibis -Character / Pseudonym - Character from Pessoa’s childhood accompanying him until the end of his life; also signed poems53. Dr. Gaudencio Turnips - Proto-heteronym / Pseudonym - English-Portuguese journalist and humorist; director of O Palrador54. Pip - Proto-heteronym / Pseudonym - Poet and author of humorous anecdotes; predecessor of Dr. Pancrácio55. Dr. Pancrácio - Proto-heteronym / Pseudonym - Storyteller, poet and creator of charades56. Luís António Congo - Proto-heteronym / Pseudonym - Collaborator in O Palrador; columnist and presenter of Eduardo Lança57. Eduardo Lança - Proto-heteronym / Pseudonym - Luso-Brazilian poet58. A. Francisco de Paula Angard - Proto-heteronym / Pseudonym - Collaborator in O Palrador; author of “Textos scientificos”59. Pedro da Silva Salles / Zé Pad - Proto-heteronym / Alias - Author and director of the section of anecdotes at O Palrador60. José Rodrigues do Valle / Scicio - Proto-heteronym / Alias - Collaborator in O Palrador; author of charades; literary manager61. Dr. Caloiro - Proto-heteronym / Pseudonym - Collaborator in O Palrador; reporter and author of A pesca das pérolas62. Adolph Moscow - Proto-heteronym / Pseudonym - Collaborator in O Palrador; novelist and author of Os Rapazes de Barrowby63. Marvell Kisch - Proto-heteronym / Pseudonym - Author of a novel announced in O Palrador, called A Riqueza de um Doido64. Gabriel Keene - Proto-heteronym / Pseudonym - Author of a novel announced in O Palrador, called Em Dias de Perigo65. Sableton-Kay - Proto-heteronym / Pseudonym - Author of a novel announced in O Palrador, called A Lucta Aérea66. Morris & Theodor - Pseudonym - Collaborator in O Palrador; author of charades67. Diabo Azul - Pseudonym - Collaborator in O Palrador; author of charades68. Parry - Pseudonym - Collaborator in O Palrador; author of charades69. Gallião Pequeno - Pseudonym - Collaborator in O Palrador; author of charades70. Urban Accursio - Alias - Collaborator in O Palrador; author of charades71. Cecília - Pseudonym - Collaborator in O Palrador; author of charades72. José Rasteiro - Proto-heteronym / Pseudonym - Collaborator in O Palrador; author of charades73. Nympha Negra - Pseudonym - Collaborator in O Palrador; author of charades74. Diniz da Silva - Pseudonym / Proto-heteronym - Author of the poem “Loucura”; collaborator in Europe75. Herr Prosit - Pseudonym - Translator of El estudiante de Salamanca by José Espronceda76. Henry More - Proto-heteronym - Author and prose writer77. Wardour - Character (?) - Poet78. J. M. Hyslop - Poet79. Vadooisf (?) - Poet80. Nuno Reis - Psuedonym - Son of Ricardo Reis81. João Caeiro - Character (?) - Son of Alberto Caeiro and Ana Taveir