Life comes at you fast. There never seems to be enough time in the day for all the joys and sorrows it may bring, enough time for all the work, reading, laughter or quality time with loved one. ‘If only we could put the world on hold,’ Kate Baer muses in her third collection of poetry,And Yet, and demonstrates how, perhaps, we can very well do so through poetry. Poetry puts a moment on pause and allows you to open it up, unpack the viscera of emotions and examine the bones of living, and across this volume we watch Baer chronicle many moments worth pausing on. The poems here gaze inwards to capture Baer’s self-reflections, particularly on motherhood and marriage, as well as outward to discuss topics like misogyny and the COVID pandemic. It's a bit light and could certainly go deeper, but the quick flashes of recognizable emotions seem to be the aim and in that it succeeds. Through the highs and lows, Baer asks us ‘to witness one / life’s miserable devastation and / see her reach, instead, for joy,’ and delivers it all in succinct poetry full of humor and wit.IdeaI will enjoy this life. I will open itlike a peach in season, suck the juicefrom every finger, run my tongue overmy chin. I will not worry about clichésor uninvited guests peering in my windows.I will love and be loved. Save and be saveda thousand times. I will let the want intomy body, bless the heat under my skin.My life, I will not waste it. I will enjoy this life.This is a short collection and many of the poems are quite short, but they also pack a lot of emotion within them. Baer became an instant hit with her 2020 debut,What Kind of Woman, full of strong feminist themes and empowering reflections that were wonderfully succinct and quotable, making them ideal posts to be shared and reshared on social media as a very difficult year was coming to a close. Her honest examinations of womanhood and criticisms of misogyny in her book of poems as well as her online blog received a lot of pushback and toxic responses which, in the mindset of the maxim about when life hands you lemons, she creatively transformed into poetic lemonade through erasure poems or poetic retellings of these emails in her second collectionI Hope This Finds You Well. Here we return to more to the style of her first collection, though poems such asReasons to Log Offthat discusses the cruelty of strangers on the internet keeps her second book always close to mind as well. The poems vary across settings and scenarios like putting kids to bed, hating a move to a new home, waiting in a COVID testing facility, or simply feeling the exhaustion of life. But not everything is harsh examinations or poems about grief. Baer has a fun sense of humor, such as poems like ‘Writing Poems High/On Twitter’, or exploring alternative words to make the slang acronym ”Milf” (ending on ‘Mother I’d like to free’) or even that her headstone should one day read ‘Honestly just a really good time.’ There is a wonderful balance of emotions that keep this collection feeling light and playful amidst all the grief.‘How foolish we are / to believe what we love won’t end.’Baer gives a lot of space for introspection here, or, as she puts it. to ‘walk down to the river of myself / and see what I have always known.’ These poems are often easy to identify with or laugh with, which makes them quite catching. ‘Where are the poems / about the grief of two ordinary people / who fell in love?’ she asks, opting to write them herself with poetry about ordinary and everyday life carrying both joy and grief. There are close-ups of marriage, not shirking away from flaws and failures while still capturing moments of coziness and peace, and plenty of thoughts on parenthood wondering what we can actually pass along to children when we, as adults, are caught in the mess of a society we often make messier. But most of all, Baer captures moments when the walls are down and the armor is off and we can’t do anything but face ourselves.‘You ask me my intentionsbut darling, I have none.I only have desire.’This is a quick and fun collection that will certainly please fans and likely attract newcomers as these poems seem destined for social media feeds much like the first collection. Baer naturally gets comparisons toRupi Kaur, and does feel like a more matured and formal few steps further than the insta-poetry scene that was quite popular a few years ago while still having a similar shareability. They can seem a bit slight, but the accessibility is nice and welcoming, and anyone can find something to identify with in these pages.And Yetreminds us to pause on moments and drink deeply from them to get the most out of life.3.5/5If You Were to Ask for the Secret to a Happy Marriageafter Leah Naomi GreenI would tell you how the fire beetle matesonly when the chaparral is burning.How the prologue changes when youwrite the second act. How even whena room is backlit by the joy of children,by the brilliance of a fantasy,there will always be a deathdressed as a question, waiting alonein that godforsaken dark.