I quote whole chunks from the book. There isn’t really anything to “spoil”, per se, but if you want to go in completely blind, you have been warned.I picked this up because it was on quite a few poetry lists, hailed as a modern classic. Itisa modern classic, in my opinion, but I’m only saying that because I enjoyed the hell out of it. It isn’t, however, entirely “poetry”. It’spoetic, for sure. It’s poetic musings and gatherings of things, philosophy, art, science, readings. Such a beautiful collection of blue to deal with feeling blue, in the general sense. Not that Maggie Nelson would necessarily equate feeling blue with the emptiness and sadness that the general sense connotes. I’ll still file it under poetry. Who cares, there are no rules.Below?Les Bluetsby Joan Mitchell (1973). It inspired the name for Nelson’s 240 “pieces” in this book. If you own Lydia Davis’Essays One, you can flip to this picture and read her essay on it. I didn’t! But if you want to, it’s also online, righthere. You can let me know how it is if you do.I’ll spruce up the review with some quotes at the end, all from the book. For now, we’ll start with what Nelson starts with, right before she gets into the book, a snippet from Pascal’sPensées:“And were it true, we do not think all philosophy is worth one hour of pain.”The tribal side of me (easily activated during each and every single one of the 38 Premier League games that Arsenal play) despises blue. Red is where it should be. Reactionary, angry, sexy, seductive, alluring. The cognitive side of me (often on vacation) rests inside blue when it can. I think of music, the deep emotional crags inside of my brain,filledto the brim with blue. Indigo. Cyan. Azure. Navy. Sky. Turquoise. I think of those albums that were blue, and the blue affected everything about how they affected me. So not so cognitive, eh? Emotional. Deeply emotional. Maybe this one, John Mayer.Or this one, Jay Z.This one for SURE, Drake.The Beatles have to be there, despite this not being a studio album.Nirvana.A music list for Alan is pointless without some Red Hot Chili Peppers.This one too.An abundance of blue. It’s an important colour. Maybe the musical draw from the colour drew me to pick the book up. But it landed something fierce. I’m not currently in the state of mind that Nelson would have been in when she wrote the book, or parts of it. She was reeling from the dissolution of a romantic relationship. That’s a lazy explanation for the feeling though, as we all know it’s not a one-to-one linear relationship. The amount of her “sadness”, if you can call it that, did not make her delve even deeper into the colour.Fuck it, I won’t wait for the end to toss everything in. Here are some of the quotes I liked:27. But why bother with diagnoses at all, if a diagnosis is but a restatement of the problem?45. This pains me enormously. She presses me to say why; I can’t answer. Instead I say something about how clinical psychology forces everything we call love into the pathological or the delusional or the biologically explicable, that if what I was feeling wasn’t love then I am forced to admit that I don’t know what love is, or, more simply, that I loved a bad man. How all of these formulations drain the blue right out of love and leave an ugly, pigmentless fish flapping on a cutting board on a kitchen counter.71. I have been trying, for some time now, to find dignity in my loneliness. I have been finding this hard to do.72. It is easier, of course, to find dignity in one’s solitude. Loneliness is solitude with a problem. Can blue solve the problem, or can it at least keep me company within it?—No, not exactly. It cannot love me that way; it has no arms. But sometimes I do feel its presence to be a sort of wink—Here you are again, it says, and so am I.I adore how she puts these across. She does a bit of the music soul searching too - that’s what inspired my closer look into the musical influence on the colour (the cover art?) - she goes with Joni Mitchell’sBlue.She also works with Leonard Cohen’sFamous Blue Raincoat. We Canadians know our blue, that’s for damn sure.Rant coming up. Skip it if you want - look for the next bolded letters.As a side note, I wanted to listen to Joni Mitchell’sBluewhile reading this book, as the album was salient again due to constant mentions. I go to Spotify, I search it up, and I remember that both her and Neil Young took their discographies off of Spotify due to… what exactly? Sharing a platform with Joe Rogan? Due to ideas that he was spreading COVID misinformation? I’m no Rogan apologist (I think he’s brilliant at maintaining that many conversations with that many differing personalities, but he can be a massive idiot at times), but had they listened to a single episode of his work or was it just the classic out of context clips that go around of him being an oaf that talks about elk, BJJ, and ivermectin? Look: now millions and millions of people are a) deprived of your music and b) deprived of the chance to become acquainted with your work. Do you know the amount of inspiration and influence you are taking away from upcoming artists? Not to mention the selfish lens of the fact that your influence/legacy will be nil to ongoing generations. Spotify (unfortunately)isthat big. It isthatubiquitous.A pattern I notice with ageing: your experience grows. Of course, as experience accumulates, you may mistake this accumulation with wisdom. That would be stupid. You don’t have a god-given talent to identify patterns within this experience properly. You are welcome to speak out on it, of course. Yes, stick it to the man. I get it, trust me. Stick it to thesystem. Monopolies are bad. I have a sarcastic tone, but I do genuinely agree. I just think it’s a damn shame to be that old, have that much experience, have seen that much of the world, and still be unable to come back to a situation and potentially admit that your pride may have gotten the better of you.Listen, I’m sorry, I CANNOT believe that Joni Mitchell had even heard of this podcast prior to… seeing clips of it? Being told about it? Does Joni Mitchell even listen toanypodcasts? Come now. Do I think this was an orchestrated attempt by other music streaming services at Spotify’s stocks and chokehold on the market? Heyyyyyy now. We can talk over some coffee.“It’s a dangerous thing to mistake speaking without thought for speaking the truth, don’t you think?” says Benoit Blanc. I love that quote. Let’s not forget that quote before taking sensationalist stances. Fucking hell, Joni Mitchell, look what you’ve made me type out in my review. As for your music… shit, I’m not going out of my way to buy it. Don’t it always seem to go that you don’t know what you got ‘til it’s gone?Rant done. I needed to get that out.I’m rambling - I don’t have a coherent point. I just want to say that “this was good”. I also want to say that because it was good, “I liked it”. That’s it, really, isn’t it? Here are the rest of the sections I liked.121. “Clearness is so eminently one of the characteristics of truth, that often it even passes for truth itself,” wrote Joseph Joubert, the French “man of letters” who recorded countless such fragments in notebooks for forty years in preparation for a monumental work of philosophy that he never wrote. I know all about this passing for truth. At times I think it quite possible that it lies, as if a sleight of hand, at the heart of all my writing.134. It calms me to think of blue as the color of death. I have long imagined death’s approach as the swell of a wave—a towering wall of blue. You will drown, the world tells me, has always told me. You will descend into a blue underworld, blue with hungry ghosts, Krishna blue, the blue faces of the ones you loved. They all drowned, too. To take a breath of water: does the thought panic or excite you? If you are in love with red then you slit or shoot. If you are in love with blue you fill your pouch with stones good for sucking and head down to the river. Any river will do.135. Of course one can have “the blues” and stay alive, at least for a time. “Productive,” even (the perennial consolation!). See, for example, “Lady Sings the Blues”: “She’s got them bad / She feels so sad / Wants the world to know / Just what her blues is all about.” Nonetheless, as Billie Holiday knew, it remains the case that to see blue in deeper and deeper saturation is eventually to move toward darkness.184. Writing is, in fact, an astonishing equalizer. I could have written half of these propositions drunk or high, for instance, and half sober; I could have written half in agonized tears, and half in a state of clinical detachment. But now that they have been shuffled around countless times—now that they have been made to appear, at long last, running forward as one river—how could either of us tell the difference?198. In a 1994 interview, about twenty years after he wrote “Famous Blue Raincoat,” Cohen admitted that he could no longer remember the specifics of the love triangle that the song describes. “I always felt that there was an invisible male seducing the woman I was with, now whether this one was incarnate or merely imaginary I don’t remember.” I find this forgetting quite heartening and quite tragic, in turns.203. I remember, in the eighties, when crack first hit the scene, hearing all kinds of horror stories about how if you smoked it even once, the memory of its unbelievable high would live on in your system forever, and you would thus never again be able to be content without it. I have no idea if this is true, but I will admit that it scared me off the drug. In the years since, I have sometimes found myself wondering if the same principle applies in other realms—if seeing a particularly astonishing shade of blue, for example, or letting a particularly potent person inside you, could alter you irrevocably, just to have seen or felt it. In which case, how does one know when, or how, to refuse? How to recover?233. That the future is unknowable is, for some, God’s means of suturing us in, or to, the present moment. For others, it is the mark of a malevolence, a sure sign that our entire existence here is best understood as a sort of joke or mistake.234. For me, it is neither. It is simply the way that it is. Whether this accident be a happy or unhappy one is probably more a matter of mood than anything else; the difficulty is that “our moods do not believe in each other” (Emerson). One can wander about the landscape looking for clues, amassing evidence, but even the highest pile never seems to decide the case.