Ada Limón is an amazing poet, with a strong distinctive voice. A feminist, rough-edged, American Latina, Kentucky/NYC/California/Nebraska/Tennessee voice. It's very good.I'll show you some examples. I'll hide them under spoilers because I know some people don't like poetry. So, you can only read the ones that interest you or none at all.Feminist/womanhoodHOW TO TRIUMPH LIKE A GIRLI like the lady horses best,how they make it all look easy,like running 40 miles per houris as fun as taking a nap, or grass.I like their lady horse swagger,after winning. Ears up, girls, ears up!But mainly, let's be honest, I likethat they're ladies. As if this bigdangerous animal is also a part of me,that somewhere inside the delicateskin of my body, there pumpsan 8-pound female horse heart,giant with power, heavy with blood.Don't you want to believe it?Don't you want to lift my shirt and seethe huge beating genius machinethat thinks, no, it knows,it's going to come in first.Appreciating the little things in life:THE TREE OF FIREThe tree comes to mefor the first time in weeks.When did all its colors,like some commercial for dying,start shooting out of its skin?This morning, we fuckedeach other into a regularbackyard bonfire - cold woodturned to coal in the fine,fine flame. And now, this treebreaks into view, lurid red leavesthat demand a clanging,screaming alarm, and I think -this tree has been hereall this time, and I didn't notice.I swear, I'll try harder not tomiss as much: the tree, or howyour fingers under stillsleep-stunned sheetscoaxed all my colors back.God/ReligionMIRACLE FISHI used to pretend to believe in God. Mainly, I liked so much to talk to someone in the dark. Think of how far a voice must have to travel to go beyond the universe. How powerful that voice must be to get there. Once in a small chapel in Chimayo, New Mexico, I knelt in the dirt because I thought that's what you were supposed to do. That was before I learned to harness that upward motion inside me, before I nested my head in the blood of my body. There was a sign and it said, This earth is blessed. Do not play in it. But I swear I will play on this blessed earth until I die. I relied on a Miracle Fish, once, in New York City, to tell me my fortune. That was before I knew it was my body's water that moved it, that the massive ocean inside me was what made the fish swim.She writes A LOT of poems about death and watching her stepmother die of cancer. They're brutal, and very good reading. There's a whole chapter of the book dealing with poems on death and watching someone you love slowly die.I'll just put one of those in this review:Dealing with the death of a loved oneCOWERI'm cold in my heart, coal-hardknot in the mountain burieddeep in the boarded-up mine. So,I let death in, learn to prospectthe between-dreams of the dying,the one dream that tells you whento throw up, the other, whenyou're in pain. I tell youI will love someone that youwill never meet, death's warmbreath at the mouthof the body's holler.You are crying in the shower.I am crying near the shower.Your body a welcomed-redfire-starter in steam and I think,How scared I would beif I were death. How could Icome to this house, cometo this loved being, seethe mountains powerand dare blast you down.I dry you off and think,if I were death come to take you,your real-earth explosives,I would be terrified.She writes a lot about men, her exes, and her sexual experiences.Here's one liked about that topic,GLOWIn the black illegible moment of foolishwant, there is also a neon sign flashing,the sign above the strip joint where mysecond big love worked as a bouncerand saved the girls from unwanted hands,unpaid-for hands. Thin-lipped ladieswith a lot on their minds and more ontheir backs, loaded for bear, and forthe long winter's rain, loaded for real,and I've always been a jealous girl,but when he'd come home with a 4 a.m.stomp in his boots and undress to bed,he was fully there, fully in the room,my sleeping body made awake, awake,and there was a gentleness to this,a long opening that seemed to join usin the saddest hour. Before now, I don'tknow if I have ever loved anyone, or ifI have ever been loved, but men havebeen very good to me, have seenmy absurd out-of-place-ness, my bentgrin and un-called-for loud laughand have wanted to love me for it,have been so warm in their wantingthat sometimes I wanted to love them, too.And I think that must be worth something,that it should be a celebrated thing,that though I have not stood on a mountainunder the usual false archway of traditionand chosen one person forever, what I havedone is risked everything for that hour,that hour in the black night, where oneflashing light looks like love, I havepulled over my body's car and letmyself believe that the dance wasonly for me, that this gift of a breathingone-who-wants was always a gift,was the only sign worth stopping for,that the neon glow was a real star,gleaming in its dying, like us all,like us all.Being Latin@PRICKLY PEAR & FISTICUFFSMy older brother says he doesn't consider himself Latino anymore and I understand what he means, but I stare at the weird fruit in my hand and wonder what it is to lose a spiny layer. He's explaining how white and lower-middle-class we grew up and how we don't know anything about any culture except maybe Northern California culture, which means we get stoned more often and frown on super stores. I want to do whatever he says. I want to be something entirely without words. I want to be without tongue or temper. Two days ago in Tennessee someone said,Stop it, Ada's Mexican.And I didn't know what they were talking about until one of them said,At least I didn't say wetback.And everyone laughed. Honestly, another drink and I could have hit someone. Started the night's final fight. And I don't care what he says. My brother would have gone down swinging and fought off every redneck whitey in the room.She also has a great poem about her ex getting hit by a bus, and a great one about peeing outside like the pit bull bitch she was with at a car show with an inattentive boyfriend.... oh, there's so much good stuff in here but I can't transcribe the whole book for you! LOL LOL Much as I want to.Tl;dr - Sometimes I get the urge to read poetry. Perhaps you do, too? It's hard to know what's going on in the modern poetry world (MODERN) because it's not really discussed or paid attention to in everyday life by everyday people. So, I'm here to tell you that this is good stuff and you might want to give her poems a try if you are curious. Take a look below my review for some quotes of hers I added to GR, as well - they can offer you a glimpse of some poems I didn't share here.I'll definitely pick up another volume of hers. Insightful, slightly funny, feminist, and able to tackle the hard stuff without being maudlin or preachy. Excellent. I think I'm actually going to purchase this one....EDIT: 07/17/2022Ada Limón Is Named the Next Poet Laureate"Poetry, she said, can help the nation “become whole again” in a fraught, divided moment."When Ada Limón quit her marketing job to try writing full time, she assumed that would mean writing fiction. So she spent her working hours imagining the lives of other people. Then, she said, she would plunge into poetry, where she could be herself.She never published a novel. But as a poet, she has been awarded the highest honor in her field: On Tuesday, the Library of Congress announced she will become the next poet laureate of the United States.Limón, who has published six books, will begin her tenure this fall as the 24th poet laureate, a position that has been held by some of the country’s most celebrated poets, including Louise Glück, Juan Felipe Herrera, Robert Hass and Tracy K. Smith....Link to full article:https://www.nytimes.com/2022/07/12/bo...