Blog|Twitter|Instagram| Review also posted atBooked J.|"It is a blessing and a curse to remember everything."For those of you who have been following me for a while, you may have noticed that I have a massive appreciation for poets who bring us into their lives by simple prose. It never matters how little or much they pen; there's just a spark of life within their words and it's kind of fearless to let countless readers into your most intimate thoughts.Jennae Cecelia has a voice that shines through in her works andBright Minds Empty Soulsis proof of that. The quality of her writing is minimal in a way that swiftly gets down to the point. Expressing yourself is what poetry is all about, and Jennae Cecelia brings her thoughts to page beautifully. Further, her work feels a lot like she is talking directly to her audience. This makes it easy to connect with.What I loved most aboutBright Minds Empty Soulsis that it ties up pieces of her life throughout a period of time. Each poem was written separately and the collection was put together in the end to create the finished product. There's a significance to the collection that I can't explain unless you read it, then, chances are, you would feel it too. When you consider the fact that it took Jennae 6 years to complete this collection, it makes sense--it's crafted out of love.Other things to note:Jennae Cecelia always makes you feel present throughout her works. I already said this, but I have to say it again: each collection feels truly like a conversation between the two of you or even just a glimpse into her mind. There's so much to relate to inBright Minds Empty Souls, as with any other title she's published in the past, and it serves as a great inspiration.Ultimately, poetry is meant to be thought provoking and raw. Real and expressive. Life at its best and worst.Bright Minds Empty Soulscaptures more than a few emotions and will, without a doubt, make readers feel. Jennae Cecelia proves once more than she is an underrated talent and will only continue to grow as a writer in what will sure to be a long career.