Though a lot of pages were starred and a lot of poems were marked I still feel like there was even more poetry in that laid flat for me. But, the ones I liked I really liked! Let's talk about them a little bit... There are shape poems in the beginning! I didn't expect that at all, and as someone whose very intrigued by that particular style of poetry I found this very pleasing to begin our story with. Pages 14 and 16 were my favorites. As for the ones I didn't note, they weren't bad poems I just didn't think the additional spacing and extended text added to the power of the poems.Next, let's talk about how the book is actually set up. It's in three sections: Sunrise, Sunset, and Midnight. First off this is nice distinction to begin with. Secondly, the sections are color coordinated. Let me explain, Sunrise starts like most books: white pages and black ink. Sunsets pages are greyed down some, with the the same black ink- this on is rather fitting because dusk is often the time of day when it's harder to see not quite sure entirely bright or dark. Midnights pages then are introverted; The r pages are black and the text is white. The words in Midnight stick out in the darkness like the full moon would in the sky. Additionally, the mood is different at each of those times in the day, at least that's what I feel between them. But, also, it's appealing to both your morning birds and your night owls and I think depending on which of those you really relate to more will influence which section you gravitate towards more. For me, it was midnight.Some of my favorite midnight pieces included pages: 60 (I love the line "We are a generation of almost lovers"), 64, 66/67*, 69/70, 78, 82, & 83.*Its a table of contents poem! Which are always fun. This one in particular tells you the story of this actual book- so I'm glad it didn't happen in the beginning because it would have given away the entire book and its ending before we even got started. Of course, because this was such an exact table of contents to our bigger story I also found it a little repetitive. So that ones a bit of a 50/50 for me if we really talk about it.Okay, just one more thing I want to talk about. There is one particular poem that is featured in each section of the day (pages 31, 49, and 62). This is particularly fun because the poem keeps changing. In the morning you have the poem as it is, how it started. Then during the evening it becomes a black out poem, changing the meaning. At Midnight the word regret is Italicized and that one slight change makes all the difference. Separate the poems are good, but together in a sequence/series broken up by the very time of the day makes them all the more powerful.