REREAD (2024):Biennial ritual of rereading my favorite contemporary poetry collection of all time. Danez, the poet you are.I've reviewed this poetry collection extensively, so there's not much to add upon my rereads (I hereby vow to reread this collection every two years – it has worked really well for me over the past six years!), but I won't leave you without a new-found favorite from this collection, a poem called "....nigga":"somewhere a white boy is in his room, in the lunchroom, in the car, with his father, alone, in the dark, under his breath, as a battle cry, with the song, only with his white friends, in his lover's ear, when he's 8, when he's 40, as he comes, as tradition, as the punch line, just to try it ..."RERERAD (2022):Every two years in autumn I tend to find myself back with this collection. I discovered Smith's work by chance in 2018 and fell in love with their poetry. My appreciation for modern poetry is a constant struggle, I want to love it (bc I love poetry as an art form) but many modern poets just fall flat for me. Their words ring hollow, it feels like they have nothing of substance to say. Not Danez Smith though. They are my favorite modern poet and I keep returning to their work.Don't Call Us Deadis, in my humble opinion, their best work.It's a brutally honest and shockingly raw poetry collection which examines questions of race, gender, sexuality and illness. As a person living in a Black body in the US, a person who is perceived as a man and loves men (and loves sex!), and a person with HIV, Danez is fighting, has to fight, many battles. In consequence, their poems feel like a battle cry – some hopeful, others aggressive and loud, but all powerful and rattling.During my first two reads of this collection, I was mostly interested in Danez's poems about race and racism in the US. These were poems that I could relate to (on some level) and that I could fit into the African American literary tradition I was familiar with. "dear white america" and "dinosaurs in the hood" became instant favorites, as well as "every day is a funeral & a miracle" and "dream where every black person is standing by the ocean". I couldn't quite grasp their poems on (homo-)sexuality and being HIV+. These poems overwhelmed me, their language was so intrusive, wet, and invasive ... I found many of them quite shocking, tbh.During this reread though I consciously tried to immerse myself in these poems as well, and what can I say? It worked. It worked wonders actually. I already LOVED this collection but I think I love it a little bit more now. With the exception of only one poem I could make sense of every single poem in this collection, every poem touched me in some way.In "summer, somewhere", Danez pictures a place for all the dead Black boys who died due to racist injustices but also – and this is something I only took note of during my reread – due to homophobia. They write: "outside our closet / i found a graden. he would love it / here. he could love me here." I mean, what a beautiful picture!A new favorite poem – "at the down-low house party" – focuses on closeted gay men who hide their sexuality and their desires at house parties, who want to come across as cool and aloof and unbothered by male bodies. Their quiet sham is disrupted when a "glittering boy shows up, starts vogueing & shit" and "his sharp hips pierce our desire, make our mouths water / & water & we call himfaggotmeaningbravery". The poem is so vivid and one I'll keep coming back to.Danez Smith likens their illness to a "bloodfuneral", in "it won't be a bullet", one of the first poems of the collection, they set the tone: "i'm not the kind of black man who dies on the news. / i'm the kind who grows thinner & thinner & thinner". In "crown", Danez writes: "my blood a river named medusa. every man / i touch turns into a monument." Throughout the collection you get the sense that Danez felt that their HIV+ diagnosis was inevitable. A fate that awaits too many Black gay men. Sometimes their imagery was too vivid and invasive for me but all in all, you really get their sense of urgency and desperation.I wanna end this review with the last lines of Danez's poem "little prayer":"let this be the healing / & if not let it be".Amen.REVIEW (2020):Don't Call Us Deadwas my favorite poetry collection of 2018. Ever since then, I read every single work that Danez Smith has published. They remain my favorite poet until this day. Their poetry is so real and raw and truly comes alive on the page. There are just very few artist who manage to completely capture my attention and move me so deeply with their words. Last month, I thought it was time to reread this brilliant collection.In my humble opinion,Don't Call Us Deadis Danez's best work and I would highly recommend starting with this collection. In it, Danez confronts race, police brutality, gender, sexuality, illness ... what it means to be HIV+, what it means to grow up in a Black body in the US, what it means to grow up gay in a Black family. It is an incredibly personal collection in which Danez makes themselves extremely vulnerable. They let us in on their inner thoughts, their most intimate feelings, emotions of anger and frustration and joy and hope and hopelessness.ReadingDon't Call Us Deadfeels like coming home. It is an incredibly brave collection that addresses what needs to be addressed. In a clear voice. Sharp. Bold. Loud. Danez doesn't hold back.My favorite poems from this collection are: 1)dinosaurs in the hood, 2) dream where every black person is standing by the ocean, 3)every day is a funeral & a miracle, 4)dear white americaand 5)summer, somewhere. [I linked videos, if available, of Danez performing these poems. I would highly recommend watching them perform their poetry because their words are meant to be heard, not read.]I would like to discuss some of these poems a little further because they're all brilliant and hold a special place in my heart.Dinosaurs in the hoodis by far my favorite poem in this collection and quite frankly, my favorite poem of all time. I love poems hat have a clear message, that tell a story. In the poem, Danez imagines what it would be like to direct a movie. A movie about "a little black boy playing / with a toy dinosaur on the bus", about a "neighborhood of royal folks— / children of slaves & immigrants & addicts & exiles—saving their town / from real ass dinosaurs."It is a humorous poem that will make you laugh and smile but at the same time, also swallow deeply and feel pain when Danez insists that "no one kills the black boy. & no one kills / the black boy. & no one kills the black boy."Dinosaurs in the hoodexplores how Black people are portrayed in mainstream media. All the stereotypes and tropes. All the trauma that Black characters (and people) are forced to undergo in order to please a predominantly white audience. By breaking with these norms, Danez manages to write an incredibly empowering poem. Their hopefulness at the end is electrifying: "besides, the only reason / i want to make this is for the first scene anyway: little black boy / on the bus with his toy dinosaur, his eyes wide & endless / his dreams possible, pulsing, & right there." It is so important that we imagine our own futures, futures full of hopes and dreams and light and possibilities.My second favorite poem in this collection is called "dream where every black person is standing by the ocean":& we say to herwhat have you done with our kin you swallowed?& she saysthat was ages ago, you’ve drunk them by now& we don’t understand& then one woman, skin dark as all of uswalks to the water’s lip, shouts Emmett, spits&, surely, a boy beginscrawling his way to shoreThis poem always makes me cry. For me, it's an incredibly piece and tool for working through trauma. Danez uses the image of the ocean, which has served as a burial ground for too many victims of the transatlantic slave, to connect their Black audience to their ancestor through water. Water that stands for the bloodshed but also for memory. Water that isn't just the ocean but also the rivers, lakes, seas in which Black people were drowned – like 14-year-old Emmett who was found on the shores of the Tallahatchie River. For me, the poem also strikes an extremely hopeful chord. Danez connects us to our ancestors. They show that there is a bond there that can never be broken. That they live in us, that we live because and for them. The poem is short, yet powerful.Summer, somewhereis a longer narrative poem in which Danez imagines an alternative heaven for Black boys (who were murdered by police or through other acts of racism).please, don't call us dead,call us alive someplace better.Danez shows that hope appears as a form of resistance and rebirth. The poem is an extended sequence, a dream-like vision of "unfuneraling" Black boys shot dead by police. Here we find anguish for lives severed in their prime, for the acquittal of Trayvon Martin's killer, George Zimmerman, in the summer of 2013, as well as the deaths of Eric Garner and Michael Brown during the following summer. The result is tremendously moving. The poem functions as an exalting and longed-for acknowledgement of historical pain.Indear white america, a poem that went viral on Youtube, Danez's anger finally boils over. It is a reckoning with white racists, white "allies", the white middle class, white liberals. Danez finally has had enough with the supposedly well-intentioned ignorance of white Americans who "just don’t see race", or the wilful hatred of others who do.i tried, white people. i tried to love you, but you spent my brother’s funeral making plans for brunch, talking too loud next to his bones. you took one look at the river, plump with the body of boy after girl after sweet boi & askwhy does it always have to be about race?because you made it that way!As a Black person living in a predominantly white society, I could relate to EVERY. SINGLE. FUCKING. WORD. Danez was saying. They were speaking from my soul.Dear white americais a poem that continuously has me shook because Danez doesn't hold back and they no longer give any fucks. Upon my reread, I also noticed that they paid homage to James Baldwin by using Jimmy's famous lines: "How much time do you want for your progress?"It is extremely disheartening that Danez's words remain relevant as ever [and will still be relevant in 50 years]. Structural racism is the foundation on which our societies are built. Dismantling this system will take hundreds of years. It's frustrating how long it takes for white people to simply see you as human, as equal. It's frustrating and exhausting. However, people like Danez Smith give me hope and strength. They let me know I'm not alone. They let me know that there are shoulders I can stand on, people with whom I can walk hand in hand. All the people who fought before me, fight beside me, and will fight after me are an incredible source of hope and strength.Here's to us. <3// Oh, I won this book for my BookTubeAThon Book Dominoes challenge (go me). Not sure if I have to disclose this since I wasn't paid or even required to write this review but maybe some of ya'll wanna know that I didn't pay for this book myself as I won it in a giveaway. :)