"Am I supposed to do somethingimportant?It doesn't seem enoughto merely take up spaceon this planetin this countryin this statein this townin this family."―Annie,Heartbeat, P. 28All of life comes down to the heartbeat, doesn't it? For the very old and the newborn babe, the extravagantly wealthy and the dirt poor, the deliriously happy and those in the midst of despair, the heartbeat is the sign that life goes on, that the body is functional and still capable of keeping itself going even if nothing seems right in one's world. For Annie, the heartbeat can be felt in the pulsing rhythm of running barefoot, an instinctive pastime for her that reaffirms with each pounding footfall the life that courses within her body, the hope and joy and expectation for her future as it grows and branches out in so many surprising ways. After waiting so long for the birth of her new baby brother or sister, an impossibly fragile new life form that will enter this world as every other child before it has done, on a whisper and a hope that all will go as planned and the baby will pass from the darkness of the womb into the brightness of the world with all the fullness of life pumping through its veins, Annie experiences the gift of connectedness that a healthy heartbeat can be in whatever form one's awareness of it takes, a promise of the presence of life and the potential of that life for as long as the heartbeat continues.Though a runner by nature, Annie has no visions of stardom on the track, no thoughts of blazing along at top speed alongside other gifted runners in hopes of crossing the finish line just before them. Running is a lot more visceral than that to Annie, a personal venture of movement and athletic consistency that reaches beyond the acclaim available from outside watchers and touches the core of her spirit. Running is aboutrunningfor Annie; it's not about winning or competing or setting goals or proving anything, it's aboutrunning. Annie and her friend Max go running by themselves all the time, with no words necessary at the start, finish or along the way, just the rhythmic cadence of their breathing in time and the shared focus of getting somewhere, not always even certain where that is when they first take off on a run. Max isn't sure that the quiet synchronicity of running along with Annie is all that he wants anymore, though. He wants to join the track team at school, and he'd like Annie to join with him.Annie's grandfather was once a good runner, a genuine track star, and it seems to her that he was never happier than when he stepped away from the track and decided that he'd had enough of competition. Annie feels sure that running is all she needs, even as Max continues to urge her to consider joining the team. The girl's track coach also takes the time to tell Annie that she thinks she has real talent as a runner, and it would be a shame to let that talent go to waste by not finding out what she might be capable of doing as part of a team. Still, nothing has changed for Annie. All she wants from running is to run, and her single-mindedness begins to put some strain on her friendship with Max."And what did I thinkwhen I was smalland why did I forget?And what else will I forgetwhen I grow older?And if you forgetis it as ifit never happened?Will none of the thingsyou saw or thought or dreamedmatter?"―Annie, PP. 43-44While Annie rebuffs the attempts of the track coach to get her on the team, expectations at home start to grow with the exciting news that Annie's mother will be having a baby. Even as the weeks and then months pass and the baby grows larger inside of Annie's mother, though, her grandfather shows signs that he is at the other end of the life cycle. He has a hard time remembering things, and his reactions to simple parts of everyday life can be unexpected and disconcerting. The track star he once was has undeniably faded, and Annie isn't sure what to think about her grandfather's inevitable continued decline. She remembers the wise, funny person he once was, on top of things physically and mentally, and it's hard to see him losing, a little bit at a time, those qualities that had made him so special.Of all the experiences she has during the nine months in which her mother is pregnant, it's the assignment at school of drawing an apple once a day for a hundred days that teaches Annie the most. As the apple undergoes physical changes and spots appear on its skin, the outside grows softer and changes color, and eventually a certain someone from her family takes an unapproved bite out of it, Annie has time to reflect on the nature of the apple, filled with seeds that all hold the potential to grow into apple trees of their own. One might not be sure how many of the seeds would really ever spring up into a tree, or what the tree would grow to look like or how long it might live or how its apples would taste, but all the basic elements of that possible future tree are right there in those seeds inside of the apple. Annie perceives that a baby human is just like that; we can't be sure how it will grow or if it's going to be healthy or how its personality will develop or a thousand different things that matter to us and we really want to know as we await its arrival and then observe it as a newborn, but those are seeds that won't blossom until their time has come. Like the apple, we can watch and wait to see who the baby will become and marvel at how something which at one time was nothing but a miniscule cluster of cells could grow to be a living, breathing, unique human being, a fully functional child complete with its own heartbeat that reminds us of the similarities of every living creature, and what a miracle it is every time one enters the world.Does Annie have much to learn as we readHeartbeat? Yes, I suppose she does, but no more than any other person in the world. As I see it, most of what she learns flows from the contemplative, rhythmic way she observes the life built around her, her personal thoughts providing far better insight into it than any outside interpreter could have given. Annie views her world with fresh eyes every day, willing to see anew the people in it and their situations and understand better how everything fits together. Annie is a very (I know I shouldn't be using that word, it's on the forbidden list!) natural person, content to live within her own expectations and not rely on others for affirmation. On page fourteen, she acknowledges that people might think she and Max are crazy for running barefoot all the time, even in the mud and rain and snow, "but it doesn't feel crazy to us. It feels like what we do". What simpler explanation could exist for why one does something, than that it's just what one does? Annie takes this thought process in all matters, especially in regard to her desire to continue running apart from any formal practice squad or school team. If she had wanted to be part of the team then she would have tried out for it, so she clearly doesn't want to be part of it. That's enough for her and she expects it to be enough for others, even as Max continues to be perplexed by Annie's decision to remain a solo runner.I love how deeply Annie invests herself in the school assignment of describing what she loves and what she fears. When she hears the other kids talking about the assignment, she realizes that all of them have chosen superficial things to "love", such as candy and television and weekends. What does Annie think about this? "Ilikethese things but I do notlovethem and I wonder if I amsupposedto love them and I wonder if I have done the assignment wrong". Annie wonders if perhaps she took the project too seriously, if her teacher really only wanted to hear about superficial likes, but I'm of the mind that Annie's thoughtfulness about what she truly loves is much more what her teacher was hoping to get out of the assignment from her students. The "fears" side of the project runs along the same lines, as Annie's classmates choose things like tests and reports, while Annie delves deep to honestly express:"I am afraid of dyingand of my family dyingof disappearingand not knowingthat you have disappearedor being left alonewith no one to love you."While all of Annie's classmates may share her fears, Annie is the one with the courage to write them down and the emotional honesty to express them, to name her fears even when she would rather not think about them. This honesty, I think, is why we love being inside her head, experiencing the story from her unique perspective as we come to know her as a friend. It's because we're coming to know her so well, then, that we understand the rhythms of her speech and what she means to say when she describes her feelings in ways that might not make sense to most other people. After drawing the apple for many, many weeks, taking care to keep it in as good of condition as possible even as all of the other kids have had to replace their original apples with new ones, Annie realizes that drawing the exact same apple for a hundred days straight doesn't become easier with familiarity; the task grows more difficult, because even though it's the same apple it is always changing, developing new flecks and spots and nuances of color that it didn't have at first. The apple continues to change even as it grows soft and begins to decay, and that's part of what makes the project interesting. Trying to describe what it's like, Annie thinks: "When I was running today and thinking about the apple I felt as if I was full of that apple and Iknewthe apple". Annie admits that the thought sounds peculiar, but I think I get what she means. Though most people may never form quite that kind of attachment to an apple, when one deeply ponders something or someone for a long while, becoming more familiar with that thing or person by memory, it feels as if something special has occurred, a rare connection made that only makes sense internally. When one's mind continually drifts to that thing or person and just resting on them for a little while provokes a smile, that's a nice place to be. Even if it doesn't last for very long, and eventually one no longer has that level of familiarity with the thing or person, it really is nice while it lasts.As Annie nears the end of her apple project and the due date for the birth of her baby sibling draws near, what happens down the stretch will continue to shape the way she views the world. Whether or not she ever decides to try being on a team, or the full meaning of her drawing project is appreciated by her teacher, the events of Annie's life do affect and change her in their own subtle way. The birth of a new child, though, always seems to have the biggest impact of all, and in the rush of nervous excitement and unrestrained energy as the baby begins to come and everyone hurries to prepare for the delivery, Annie sees that no matter how the birth turns out, her life will never be the same.Wonderfully, inspirationally wise, luminescently funny and always, always, always emotionally resonant, Sharon Creech has created a lead character and story inHeartbeatthat easily could have brought her another Newbery Honor. She is a fabulous author, more consistent than all but a select few and capable of the most extraordinary mixtures of profoundly compelling emotion and fresh comedic energy. I certainly recommendHeartbeatto anyone who has loved the writing of Sharon Creech, is partial to novels in verse or simply appreciates excellent literature. Any way one looks at it,Heartbeatis definitely a keeper.