[As a first-grader] I love reading the book aloud because of the word rhymes. The pictures are funny, and the little girl seems to be full of energy, just like me. I think she is very brave and confident, as she loves herself inside and out. She loves her body, emotions, and behaviors, and doesn’t care about what others think of her. I agree that we are unique and I like myself too. However, that doesn’t mean we can just do whatever we like. For example, the girl jumped onto something that looks like a tall water fountain or flower basin (by the way, the pages are not numbered) — ”I’m having too much fun, you see, for anything to bother me!” Well, i AM bothered because what if she gets injured? What if she breaks the property? For me, I think it’s good that we appreciate our uniqueness, but we need to follow rules, such as stay safe and respect others. For this reason, I like the book “I Am Who I Am” by Bruno Hächler and Iris Wolferman better. It’s a board book for younger kids, and encourages children to explore who they are, “ I’m everything that I can be. I’m the person who is me!”[As the parent helping my first-grader read and write] To be frank, I have mixed feelings toward this book. On the positive side, the words were carefully chosen to form catchy rhymes. The pictures were colorful and vibrant, and reminds me of Dr. Seuss’ style. The content focused on appreciating ourselves for who we are, both physically and mentally, in order to foster and establish self-esteem. However, we as individuals belong to a family, a classroom, a team, a workplace and in all, a society. There are established norms and rules that individuals are expected to follow, especially for young children. If my child has “beaver breath” or “stinky toes”, she needs to brush her teeth or wash her feet more often, or go see a doctor if needed. I personally wouldn’t encourage my child to claim she’d still like herself that way. It’s controversial about having “hippo hips” and I respect each side of the argument. However, if it’s due to lack of exercise or unhealthy food choice, I would encourage my child to exercise more and eat more balanced meal. To summarize, I would like to encourage children to (1) be proud of who they are, as this book promotes, (2) take good care of their body by making appropriate choices, and (3) learn to appreciate others and the world around us.