My son (6) and I reviewed this book for Mother Daughter Book Reviews. Here are excerpts from our reviews. For the full reviews please visit our website.SON SAYS:I really liked the pictures because they were silly. There are lots of funny pictures like the cat with the frog in his throat, the sandwich that goes all the way to space, and the earth that is wearing a birthday hat and is tooting a horn. My favorite poems are “A Frog in a Puss” because the picture looks funny and the story is funny. I also liked the one about the sandwich, “nelly shmagessen owned a delicatessen”. I liked the poem “Stan the Man” because the gravy house looks cool, but you can’t really build a house out of gravy.In the poem about the nose, it didn’t make sense to me in the lines that say, “He’s never wrong because he’s always right.” [Mom: I tried to explain this line to him, but he still thinks there's something wrong with the sentence. Sigh...]I really loved, loved the book. I like reading poems and I sort of like writing them too. I think kids 2 years old to 11 years old would like this book. I think their parents would like it too.MOM SAYS:It’s Weird to Grow a Beard by Neal Fox is a delight. The poems included in this collection range in length and format, but they all have one thing in common: they are silly and fun and they are accompanied by some colourful kid-friendly illustrations. Some poems are just intended to entertain, such as Hominy Grits? which is a bit of a tongue-twister, similar to “how much wood would a woodchuck chuck if a woodchuck could chuck wood?” Others are lengthier and contain an important life lesson. For example, in Why Not! the author shares that he’s always marched to a different drummer despite being looked down upon for being different.While I enjoyed all the poems, I must admit that I did take issue with the poem entitled Nobody’s Stupid One Hundred Percent. While I understand the underlying message (i.e., there is always something you are good at), I just don’t want my children (or anyone else) to even identify themselves as any percentage stupid. I always tell my kids that no one is “stupid” but sometimes people do “stupid things”. So, the behaviour is stupid, not the person. Anyways, that is just one of my issues, and overall, the poem itself has a very positive message centred on developing self-esteem.My Bottom Line:It’s Weird to Grow a Beard is filled with whimsical and plain old silly rhyming fun. The illustrations really add to the experience of reading the poems and this collection of poems will be sure to entertain children between the ages of 3 and 10. I highly recommend this book to teachers in particular who can use these in their classroom for a variety of exercises teaching about poetry.* This book was provided to us by the author free-of-charge in exchange for our honest opinions. *