A famous poet’s gravestone reads:Here lies one whose name was writ in water.That water must have been pretty damn cold, for the name remains writ and will do so till the end of time.John Keats, that many splendored thing.To really appreciate this poet a reading of his letters is I think essential. This is where you get the full picture of the man, with his hopes and his fears and his dreams and his doubts and his triumphs and presumptions and visions and observations and his courage and his loves and his bigotries and his loyalties and his humour and his sadness and his genius and his poor consumptive lungs. (I wonder that people had the courage to step out of their homes to buy bread and see people in those days.)So little and yet so much happens in the 242 letters that document the last three years of Keats’ life—jottings of a mind maturing day after day, week after week, right up to the end. What does Keats do during this time? Let's see: he spends a Summer in Dorset where it rains. His poem Endymion gets blasted by an army of nonentities. He goes to his brother George’s wedding and enjoys himself. He sees George and Georgiana off at Liverpool whence they'll embark on a journey to the New World, never to return. He goes on a walking tour through the North of England and Scotland for two months with his friend Brown. He visits Fingal’s cave, climbs Ben Nevis, admires bonnie Highland lasses. He come back to London to look after his sick brother Thomas, who dies in his arms. He hangs out with his friends. Writes lots of letters. Falls in love with Fanny Brawne. Gets sick. Dies.But the poems he wrote. Goddamn.Reading these letters is like watching a time-lapse film of delicate buds opening under the sunbeam of an early Spring. I believe no mind ever bloomed more beautifully. The style of the letters is slapdash, spontaneous, quick as thought, messy, funny, sublime—full of long dashes, bad spelling, slips of the pen and awful puns. Chaotic as the forest floor they are. They’re the rich and potent soil out of which the poems grew.Do yourselves a favour: set aside an hour each day to read one or two poems along with one or two letters, devote a month of your life to John Keats, the man and his work, keep at it every day without fail, prostrate yourselves at the feet of poesy, be willing to appear more than a little ridiculous as you quaff nectar with the gods. When you’re done put the books back in a dry place, take a deep breath, and get on with your lives.