Many weeks went by before an answer came. The letter with its blue seal bore a Paris postmark, weighed heavy in the hand and displayed on the envelope the same clarity, beauty and assurance of hand with which the content itself was written from the first line to the last. And so my regular correspondence with Rainer Maria Rilke began, lasting until 1908 and then gradually petering out because life forced me into domains which the poet's war, tender and moving concern had precisely wanted to protect me from. But that is unimportant. The only important thing is the ten letters that follow, important for the insight they give into the world in which Rainer Maria Rilke lived and worked, and important too for many people engaged in growth and change, today and in the future, And where a great and unique person speaks, the rest of us should be silent.So concludes the letter that Kappus wrote in Berlin 1929 explaining how he came to write to Rilke. A chaplain saw him reading Rilke's poetry in 1902 and informed him that Rilke had also been a cadet at their military school. Kappus wrote to Rilke, presumably asking for advice about his poetry. The only letters published in my volume at Rilke's responses to Kappus' unseen messages. Rilke even tells him,I cannot go into the nature of your verses, for any critical intention is too remote from me.One would be forgiven for inferring the 19-year-old's letters were tentative, like a chick exploring the outside of the nest for the first time. But Rilke still dives deeper into what Kappus is telling him. And this is where my existential crisis began.Rainer Maria Rilke, Encyclopaedia BritannicaI turned 31 a few days ago and I feel strange reading such wisdom from someone who is two years younger than me. The fact that this is from 1902 notwithstanding. Rilke tells Kappus that he's making a mistake comparing his writing to that of other writers, the responses of editors. I recently made a magazine submission, yes I am a writer in real life, and while they rejected my entry, they did say thatUnfortunately, this piece won't work for [us] but we wish you the best in placing your essay/story elsewhere. We found much to admire in your essay, and we encourage you to continue to your work.I did wonder what they meant by that, going as far as spiralling down a rabbit hole, bothering friends who don't understand the specifics of editorials until I eventually gave up. But Rilke had something for me,...give up all that. You are looking to the outside, and that above all you should not be doing now. Nobody can advise you and help you, nobody. There is only one way. Go into yourself. Examine the reason that bids you to write; check whether it reaches its roots into the deepest region of your heart, admit to yourself whether you would die if it should be denied you to write...This sounds dangerous, especially as advice for someone who just started artistry. There needs to be room for flexibility and an acceptance of the volatility of humanity.Rilke himself was in military service and made the time to write. Others aren't so lucky. But this doesn't dissuade Rilke from stressing all this dogma upon Kappus. Sometimes it felt that all his conviction came from patriarchal thinking rather than life experience. Rilke was a worshipper of loneliness. I, too, am a hermit. As the great Edmund Blackadder once intimated, the only way to be sure of intelligent conversation is to spend time talking to yourself. In his 1903 letter he says,love your solitude and bear the pain it causes you with melody wrought with lament.There's a lot to appreciate in this little book, from Rilke's appreciation of place,you slowly learn to recognize the very few things in which something everlasting be felt, something you can love, something solitary in which you can take part in silence.on solitudeits growth is painful like the growth of boys and sad like the beginning of springon adultingThink, dear Mr Kappus, of the world that you carry within you, and call this thinking whatever you like. Whether it is memory of your own childhood or longing for your own future - just be attentive towards what rises up inside you, and place it above everything that you notice round about. What goes on in your innermost being is worth all your love, this is what you must work on however you can and not waste too much time and energy clarifying your attitude to other people.And a few paragraphs later,adults are nothing and their dignity has no worth.This reminded me of the need for embarrassment instilled in us as children. I remember being scolded for being curious enough to ask questions then being scolded again for being quiet when I should participate. The imagined indignities suffered by adults of stunted imagination struck upon us a need to follow rigid routines and eventually shackled us to a life where all we do is grow, eat, work, sleep and if you have the range for it, reproduce more people to enter the chain.But perhaps the letter I found most impressive was where he spoke about love, and romance. Many people end up in loveless relationships that amount to acrimony and hatred all because they fear loneliness.They act out of a shared helplessness, and if they do their best to escape the convention they happen to have noticed (as marriage for example), they fall into the clutches of a less obvious but just as deadly conventional solution...Rilke also espouses the inevitable change that will be people living their lives outside of the heteropatriarchal norms,Do not believe that that abundance of love which was once, as a boy, bestowed on you is now lost.This book is full of casual wisdom and profound insight. But often it felt like affirmation of that which I already believe. There are even times I felt scolded,Why should you want to exclude from your life all unsettling, all pain, all depression of spirit, when you don't know what work it is these states are performing within you? Why do you want to persecute yourself with the question of where it all comes from and where it is leading? You well know you are in a period of transition and want nothing more than to be transformed.Does this mean that every little owie life gives me is meant to have meaning? I don't know. But like Ursula K Le Guin said,the truth that I recognize in suffering as I don’t in comfort and happiness — that the reality of pain is not pain. If you can get through it. If you can endure it all the way.But Rilke likens pain to a fever. Sickness is how the body gets rid of foreign microbes. He even gives a step by step tutorial on what to do:1. Do not watch yourself too closely.2. Do not draw over-rapid conclusions from what is happening to you. Simply let it happen. Otherwise you will too readily find yourself looking on your past.3. Be very careful with names; it is so often the name of a crime which destroys a life, not the nameless and personal act itself...4. If it doesn't cease to be difficult, it doesn't cease to grow.5. Do not think the person trying to console you lives effortlessly.6. If life wasn't full of troubles and sadness, you wouldn't be able to find the words to create.(Ps. some of these are paraphrased.)This book can be very helpful to people coming into their own. Especially authors whether starting out or in the middle of their careers. I will think of you often Rilke, with such a concentration of gratitude for this merest of gut punches,Art too is only a way of living, and it is possible, however one lives, to prepare oneself for it without knowing...