For 2017 I have set a goal for myself to read a minimum of twenty Pulitzer winners across all platforms. Upon hearing that Tracy K Smith had been named the United States poet laureate for the next year, I decided to read her 2012 Pulitzer winning collection Life on Mars. In poetry that is a mix of free verse, prose, letters, and songs, Smith delivers powerful words in a four part opus.Three poems stood out in this collection. The first, The Speed of Belief, pays homage to Smith's late father. Writing in alternating couplet and paragraph form, Smith's words are so deep that I felt as though I was also mourning a loved one. She writes, "I didn't want to believe/What we believe in those rooms: That we are blessed, letting go, Letting someone, anyone;/Drag open the drapes and heave us/Back into our blinding, bright lives." Her words grow increasingly more poignant throughout this poem as Smith balances her grief with letting go of her emotions, ending with a crescendo of the dynamic between father and daughter. I could not help but shed a tear here.Smith's title selection Life on Mars balances a plethora of emotions as she describes love, sexual violence, family dynamics, war, amongst other topics in a nine part epic. She begins with two sisters Tina and Anita as they gossip about being in love. Smith writes their section in paragraph form as she alternates between their points of view. Next she segues to describing a father's jailing of his daughter, highlighting the discrepancy between unconditional love and hatred. The poem moves to scenes in a jail and death at the hands of land mines, describing the blight of the death when people focus on hatred as opposed to love. The words here are exquisite and had me on edge, which for me as a reader does not occur too often when I read poetry; Smith's brilliancy was on full display with her centerpiece poem.Finally, They May Love All That He Has Chosen and Hate All That He Has Rejected pinpoints racial motivated killings during May, 2009. Using couplets alternating with letters, Smith first describes the hate crimes and who killed who. Then, she has the murder victims pen letters to their killers, including a heartfelt plea from a nine year old victim. All describe seeing landmarks for the first time and having unlimited capacity for love now that they are no longer confined to a body. The writing is raw, deep, and an overarching plea to stop the what seems like endless violence in this country. This poem alone merits awards and is near the end of the collection in order to leave readers feeling wowed by this special work.Tracy K Smith is deserving of her place as a poet laureate. From the small body of her work in Life on Mars, a reader only sees the tip of her exceptional work. Prior to her Pulitzer winning publication, Smith had written two other poetry collections. She has since written a memoir and has another poetry collection due out next year. If it is anything as powerful as Life on Mars, it is sure to be some of the best poetry I have written. At 5 shining stars, Tracy K Smith is one of the top authors I have read in 2017.