I absolutely love Olivia Gatwood and her poetry, but if I'm being honest, Life of the Party sat on my nightstand for a while. It sat there while I read other things: some for class and some for pleasure. I knew I would have to be in the right frame of mind to really get into Life of the Party. Gatwood's poetry, while excellent, is not easy. It is not gently reassuring or encouraging. Instead, it asks you tough questions and forces you to examine your fears and biases. Sometimes, you need to prepare yourself for it."The truth is: It is a privilege to have your body looked for."As a collection, Life of the Party is interested in one central theme: the romanticization of violence against women and what implications that romanticization has for women living in the world. Gatwood's author's note itself could be the beginning of an essay collection on this topic. She is so good at articulating her fear, her fear that is stoked by both living in a world where women are victimized and in a media landscape that is obsessed with these stories. True crime as a genre, she argues, perpetuates misogyny, racism, and sexualized violence. Women are props in these stories, usually young, beautiful, white women, who drive brave men forward to solve crimes."Sometimes, the writer in me wants to remember just so I can give you a story."As soon as I read this author's note, I wanted to give the collection five stars. Before I even read the poetry, I knew Gatwood understood what bugs me (and so many other women) about true crime. It is a genre that centers around women without ever focusing on them. It's a genre in which we are beaten and raped and killed, and yet that is all that is ever known about us. Also, largely, it leaves at the violence that occurs every day to women of color, sex workers, and transgender women. I have no appetite for true crime, but I do consume large amounts of Law and Order: SVU. My feelings on that are just as complicated. On one hand, it is cathartic, but also it still largely centers on sexual violence against women without really ever getting to know them."I want to know what it means to survive something. does it just mean I get to keep my body?"The excellent author's note aside, Life of the Party is a fantastic collection. As per usual, Gatwood writes about her complicated relationships with other girls, the casual misogyny and violence she encounters when hanging out with men, and her sexual awakening as a young girl. Woven through these poems, however, is an undercurrent of murder, rape, and sexual violence. In Murder of a Little Beauty, she examines the media frenzy surrounding the JonBenet Ramsey murder. In The Boy Says He Loves Ted Bundy But Doesn't Laugh About It, she talks about the reckoning of a young man who loves Ted Bundy and realizes that maybe that means such violence is inside him too. Several poems feature Aileen Wuornos as if she's giving advice or being written to. These poems steep Gatwood's collection in the history of true crime while offering commentary on the genre."Maybe I see myself in the worst of it. Maybe if I can imagine myself in the shallow water, you should too. Maybe I am tired of hearing people talk about the murder of girls like it is both beautiful and out of the ordinary."And then there are the babysitter interludes. These are perhaps the strongest poems in the collection. Gatwood begins by telling a story about her babysitter growing up. We follow the story of that babysitter: how the babysitter was a talented equestrian, how her dog bit her father in the calf, how the babysitter once smashed her father's hand in the hinges of her bedroom door, how she grew rebellious and eventually turned to heroin... How it came out that she had been sexually abused by her father and no one noticed... How she died in the hospital Gatwood's mother worked at. By including this story in small interludes, we get an vision of how sexual assault and abuse can wreck someone and how they can be reacting to it without anyone being the wiser. It gives an idea of the weight girls like this carry when there is no recourse for them."i hate telling people how it happened. there is a difference between fact & truth. the fact is that she overdosed. the truth is that he killed her."Life of the Party is the best collection of poetry I've read this year. I would even venture to say it's the best volume of poetry published in 2019. If you're interested in feminist poetry, true crime, or any of the other topics I discussed in this review, I'd highly recommend it. And all of Gatwood's work. She is incredible. As one of my favorite comedians Jamie Loftus said in a blurb on the back of the book, "Imagine, we get to live in the age of Olivia Gatwood."