milk and honeyis a collection of poetry and prose about survival. About the experience of violence, abuse, love, loss, and femininity. It is split into four chapters, and each chapter serves a different purpose.It’s difficult trying to review this because every poem is extremely personal, tender and exquisite in its own way.So I decided to feature some of my favorite ones:“you tell me to quiet down causemy opinions make me less beautifulbut i was not made with a fire in my bellyso i could be put outi was not made with a lightness on my tongueso i could be easy to swallowi was made heavyhalf blade and half silkdifficult to forget and not easyfor the mind to follow”“i struggle so deeplyto understandhow someone canpour their entire soulblood and energyinto someonewithout wantinganything inreturn- i will have to wait till i’m a mother”“when my mother says i deserve betteri snap to your defense out of habithe still loves me i shoutshe looks at me with defeated eyesthe way a parent looks at their childwhen they know this is the type of paineven they can’t fixand saysit means nothing to me if he loves youif he can’t do a single wretched thing about it”“he only whispers i love youas he slips his handsdown the waistbandof your pantsthis is where you mustunderstand the differencebetween want and needyou may want that boybut you certainlydon’t need him”“i am a museum full of artbut you had your eyes shut”“people gobut howthey leftalways stays”“what i miss most is how you loved me. but what i didn’t know was how you loved me had so much to do with the person i was. it was a reflection of everything i gave to you. coming back to me. how did i not see that. how. did i sit here soaking in the idea that no one else would love me that way. when it was i that taught you. when it was i that showed you how to fill. the way i needed to be filled. how cruel i was to myself. giving you credit for my warmth simply because you had felt it. thinking it was you who gave me strength. wit. beauty. simply because you recognized it. as if i was already not these things before i met you. as if i did not remain all these once you left.”“loneliness is a sign you are in desperate need of yourself”“you tell mei am not like most girlsand learn to kiss me with your eyes closedsomething about the phrase—something abouthow i have to be unlike the womeni call sisters in order to be wantedmakes me want to spit your tongue outlike i am supposed to be proud you picked meas if i should be relieved you thinki am better than them”“other women’s bodiesare not our battlegrounds”“you were a dragon long beforehe came around and saidyou could flyyou will remain a dragonlong after he’s left”“you look at me and cryeverything hurtsi hold you and whisperbut everything can heal”“how you love yourself ishow you teach othersto love you”“what terrifies me most is how wefoam at the mouth with envywhen others succeedbut sigh in reliefwhen they are failingour struggle tocelebrate each other iswhat’s proven most difficultin being human”(Most of my favorite quotes were fromthe healingsection, and it was pretty though trying to narrow it down to my preferred quotes.)It also featured some pretty amazing illustrations, which I’m always up for in books:Overall, this collection was exquisite and exactly what I needed right now.milk and honeyis definitely going to stay on my mind for a while, and I hope to come back to it time and again.4.5 stars*Note: I'm an Amazon Affiliate. If you're interested in buyingmilk and honey,just click on the image below to go through my link. I'll make a small commission!*This review and more can be found on my blog.