Age Group: 3rd grade - 5th gradeSummary: My parents think I'm sleeping is a short simple story about a boy tricking his parents that he is all tucked in bed under his covers, when really he is wide awake. He turns on his flashlight and is reading poems and stories. He is playing with pieces of a model rocket and not fast asleep at all. He waited for his parents to leave then dove beneath the covers with his light to play. He believes his parents think that he is sleeping and that he has them truly fooled. (This is one story from a series of short stories from the "I Can Read!" series)Theme: The theme of this short story is the innocence that children hold. This story shows how the little boy thinks he is being so sneak in playing and using he flashlight in bed, but clearly his parents know that he is not actually asleep. He is so happy playing around in his bed that his parents continue to let him do that until he eventually falls asleep on his own.Personal Response: I really enjoyed reading this particular short story out of the "I Can Read" series. I really related to what the little boy was doing because I would do the same exact thing as a child and my mom just recently told me she knew I was still awake every time, but let me do it because I was reading and then would just fall asleep when I got tired anyways. I love how this book depicts how sneaky the little boy thinks he is being, because in reality his parents know what he is up to. He is just so happy to be under his covers awake, when he is supposed to be asleep.Recommendation: I would recommend using this particular short story, as well as the series as a whole in the classroom. I love these books because they aren't at too hard of a reading level so kids are able to enjoy them on their own or with an adult reading them. They are great to have stored in the classroom as they are short, and interesting for children just beginning to read on their own. I think it would be beneficial to read this short story then begin a discussion with the kids about if they have ever done something they thought was sneaky and how they grew from that. It could also be fun to read this before bed with your child and then let them read a book with a flashlight under their covers until they are responsible enough to decide when they are tired.