Audience: This book is good for any type of reader, both genders, and for students in young elementary. In addition to being fitted for early elementary grades it would be a great book for families.Appeal: The first appeal of the book is how few of words it has, in addition to very view words it has elaborate pictures. The pictures being so detailed allow for each reader to interpret the images and meaning.Application: I would use this book when discussing the similarities between cultures because it has such strong meaning of the beauty of people.Awards: This book won the Coretta Scott King Illustrator Award winner in 2010.Review:K Up-Smith's knack for pairing poetry and photography is well documented in books such as Hoop Queens (Candlewick, 2003) and Rudyard Kipling's If (S & S, 2006). Here, his artful images engage in a lyrical and lively dance with Langston Hughes's brief ode to black beauty. Dramatic sepia portraits of African Americans-ranging from a cherubic, chubby-cheeked toddler to a graying elder whose face is etched with lines-are bathed in shadows, which melt into black backgrounds. The 33 words are printed in an elegant font in varying sizes as emphasis dictates. In order to maximize the effect of the page turn and allow time for meaning to be absorbed, the short phrases and their respective visual narratives often spill over more than a spread. The conclusion offers a montage of faces created with varying exposures, a decision that provides a light-filled aura and the irregularities that suggest historical prints. A note from Smith describes his approach to the 1923 poem. This celebration of the particular and universal will draw a wide audience: storytime participants; students of poetry, photography, and cultural studies; seniors; families. A timely and timeless offering.-Wendy Lukehart, Washington DC Public Library (c) Copyright 2010. Library Journals LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Media Source, Inc. No redistribution permitted.Wendy Lukehart (2009 February, 1). [Review of the book "My People" by Langston Hughes.] "School Library Journal." Retrieved fromhttp://www.booksinprint2.com.leo.lib....(I put the title of the book and journal in quotations because I could not figure out how to italicize on goodreads)I agree with this review for a few different reasons. I also felt the book could appeal to many different ages do to the meaning behind the words and images. Second I found the images to be very relatable and appealing. The short amount of words was very effective in relation to the images that went with it.