"I am this space/my body believes in," ends "The Unnatural State of the Unicorn," the first poem in Yusef Komunyakaa 's 1986 volume, I APOLOGIZE FOR THE EYES IN MY HEAD (Wesleyan). That the body itself, apart from mind or soul, can possess beliefs--or memories or hopes or regrets or revelations--comes as no surprise to anyone familiar with Komunyakaa's work, or to anyone discovering this poet for the first time through NEON VERNACULAR, which includes rich samplings from books now out of print. The tense, often colloquial language of Komunyakaa's tautly lineated poems in this volume and in his newest, MAGIC CITY, enacts on the page the muscle and movement of the human body as it walks, talks, makes love,sings the blues, even kills. Indeed, not since Berryman has an American poet developed and then used a relatively standardized style to such effect. Short lines, short sentences, fragments, and the ampersand appear in Komunyakaa's earliest work as well as in his most recent. These technicaldevices are exploited with increasing skill in poems whose subjects range from lyric meditations on love and jazz to Komunyakaa's experiences in Vietnam to his boyhood in Louisiana.The short-lined poem, a staple of the Deep Image movement, has seemed stale and tiresome in recent years, as too often it has been shaped by poets who equate the line with a unit of syntax. While this lineation may have once appeared interesting in Stanley Kunitz's THE LAYERS (OP) or the earlier work of his protegée Louise Gluck, too often it creates a rhythmic portentousness. Komunyakaa mostly avoids this pitfall, in part because of his sensitive and well~tuned ear, in part because he knows that a short line as well as a long one should possess both content and integrity.Perhaps the most interesting feature of Komunyakaa's development is how his unique sense of line and rhythm, though deriyed from his deep understanding of jazz, suddenly comes into focus when he addresses not the subject of music--"Villon/Leadbelly," "Copacetic Mingus," "Elegy for Thelonius"--but war. TOYS IN A FIELD, published in1986 by Black River Press, and DIEN CAI DAU, issued more widely in 1988 by Wesleyan, mark the beginning of Komunyakaa's most compelling work, both volumes resulting from the poet's tour of duty in Vietnam. At first it might appearstrange that such material would sharpen and focus the accomplishments of LOST IN THE BONEWHEEL FACTORY (OP, 1979), COPACETIC (Wesleyan, 1984), and the aforementioned I APOLOGIZE FOR THE EYES IN MY HEAD, Southeast Asia and the horrors enacted there being very far removed from the world of bayous and crawfish and Big Mama Thornton and hoodoo--and lynchings, or the ever-present fear thereof. Or maybe not so far removed. For the steamy jungles of Vietnam must have seemed like the humid Louisiana landscape of Komunyakaa's childhood become nighnnarish. "Camouflaging the Chimera" exemplifies both the terrifyingly phantasmagoric quality of the poems in these two collections and Komunyakaa's characteristic style at its most finely tuned and wrought.... Chameleonscrawled our spines, changing from dayto night: green to gold,gold to black. But we waitedtill the moon touched metal,till something almost brokeinside us. VC struggledwith the hillside, like black silkwrestling iron through grass.We weren't there. The river ranthrough our bones. Small animals took refugeagainst our bodies; we held our breath,ready to spring the L-shapedambush, as a world revolvedunder each man's eyelid.A return to an earlier world is the most obvious connecting thread between the poems in MAGIC CITY and the "New Poems" of NEON VERNACULAR. Though Komunyakaa's childhood memories of Bogalusa are scarred by savage racism in poems like "The Whistle," "The Steel Plate," and "History Lesson," a deep but unsentimental love of place and family invests these recent poems with a new and expansive warmth, at times even gentleness. The modulation of tone leads him to experiment with a child~like narrative voice reminiscent of Elizabeth Bishop in MAGIC CITY's opener, "Venus Flytraps," and with longer, sectioned poems as well. The virtuosic "Changes; or Reveries at a Window Overlooking a Country Road, with Two Women Talking Blues in the Kitchen," a double-columned piece that counterpoints two women's gossip about local love and loss and betrayal with a meditation on jazz and poetry, is a stunning achievement; no less impressive in its own way is "Birds on a Powerline," which ends with the words ofKomunyakaa's grandmother after his rerum from Vietnam: "Jesus, I promised you. Now/He's home safe, I'm ready. / My traveling shoes on. My teeth/ In. I got on clean underwear."The phrase "poet's poet" is overused and probably not terribly helpful to general readers who sample a book or two of poetry each year, staring dazedly at publications such as this one and trying to decide what's really worth their while--and their 10 bucks. An immersion in YusefKomunyakaa's poetry and its exactingly crafted restraint is powerful persuasion against the hyperbole that has become, unfortunately, the language of the reviewer's tribe; thus, attempting to take this poet's graceful and searing reserve as example seems the most fitting tribute in a reviewof his two first-rate collections.(originally published in THE BLOOMSBURY REVIEW)