I live in Morro Bay, CA. In our Bay are otters. A lot of visitors come here to see the otters. While my family was visiting this summer, they couldn’t wait to see the otters. For my daughter-in-law’s birthday this summer, we got her a cozy chair blanket with an otter picture on it. She lit up! There is something about an otter!This is an enjoyable story that animal lovers will appreciate.But…it is also an educational experience, too.Odder is written in free verse and inspired by true events, according to the author’s note at the back of the book. It also has lovely illustrations throughout by Charles Santoso that add to the story.Premise: Otter pup Odder is separated from her mom after a fierce storm. Fortunately, strange animals – humans – discover her and take her to a strange place, and restore her health. Eventually she goes back to the wild, has fun, makes friends – but after being badly injured by a shark bite, lands back with the humans again to be given a wonderful job of nurturing and raising other pups at the Monterey Bay Aquarium.There is much to love about the story – the feelings of adventure and impulsivity of the otters. The natural movements of a shark. The ways of the bay/ocean. The wonderful human intentions (to keep the otters healthy and/or happy in the wild). The importance of play. Messages of resilience, compassion and empathy.Some trigger moments for discussion with kids…Since the story is about orphaned pups and told from the viewpoint of one of them, (Odder) there will be some violence and scariness. A sense of fear, grief and uncertainty of being permanently separated from Mom is essential to the story – which may be difficult for kids to understand, even while kind humans provide a safety net.Other difficult parts to discuss with kids may involve when Odder is attacked by a shark and can no longer be in the wild, and another otter delivers a stillborn pup.Yet, even though…The story will have moments when it is centered on grief, loss and separation as pups lose their moms, moms lose their pups and friends lose each other – there will also, be in the background, a dedicated, caring group of scientists and volunteers working hard at keeping them safe.I strongly recommend that when readers are finished with the story, they read the Author’s note, to learn the amazing fictional backstories of these animals and their caretakers at the Monterey Bay Aquarium in Monterey, CA.She is also the author of The One and Only Ivan. My review is here:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...