After finishing this book, I started to read Seidel's bio. I stopped when I got to the second paragraph where it said he suggested corrections to Ezra Pound's translation of Confucius despite not understanding the Chinese language. My gut says that's all you need to know about him.I didn't understand much of this book and yet you can feel the language. It punches you or taunts you or just dances around in choreographed numbers so offbeat that you reread lines to see if they were put together with actual letters or just broken rocks. Incongruous. Bawdy. Sometimes romantically materialistic. Every time your mind feels like it's just found the downbeat, Seidel changes the time signature. He poems in sentences. Short, staccato-like statements. Baffling yet moth-to-the-flame alluring. This is the kind of writer you love to hate or hate to love.A lot of the allure (for me) was the way his ideas sort of build on themselves, layered tangentially but taking you just slightly left (or right) of where you're expecting them to go. For instance, in "On Being Debonair" he writes of the moon:"I like the way she speaks to me.Everything about me is bespoke."And then the next stanza pulls you to a dissonant description of place:"The desert this time of yearIs troops in desert camouflage."He'll throw in what appear to be ridiculously simplistic rhymes in the middle of stanzas or repeat a line or word with slight changes that again build to something more or jolt you just off course... of course, just enough to keep you interested. But then it's never about you the reader--the writing always seems dedicated to itself--the pursuit of an idea, the play of the words. Or he'll let the reader's mind complete a thought like in this stanza from "The Death of the Shah":"The future of psychoanalysisIs a psychology of surface.Stay on the outside side.My poor analystSuffered a stroke and became a needy child.As to the inner life: let the maid."Some of my favorites from this slim collection:- "Homage to Pessoa"- "Fog"- "E-mail from an Owl"- "East Hampton Airport"- "To Die For"- "Barbados"- "Organized Religion"- "Cassanova Getting Older"I'll leave you with one of the more disturbing but poignant pieces.THE BLACK-EYED VIRGINSA terrorist rides the rails underwaterFrom one language to another in a packed train of LondonRugby fans on their way to the big match in ParisAnd a flock of Japanese schoolgirls ready to be fuckedIn their school uniforms in paradise.This is all just after Madrid in the reign of terror.This is the girls' first trip outside Japan.The terrorist swings in the hammock of their small skirts and black socks.The chunnel train stops in the tunnel with an announcementThat everyone now alive is already human remains.The terrorists have seen to it that trainsSwap human body parts around with bombs.The Japanese schoolgirls say so sorry.Their new public hair is made of light.----------------------------------------NEW WORD I LEARNED FROM THIS BOOK:pseudocyesis