Poetry for Kids: Robert Frostis the latest in a Poetry for Kids series, with previous books featuring poetry by Emily Dickinson, Carl Sandburg and Walt Whitman. This book contains 30 of Frost's poems, prefaced by an introduction of Frost's life and inspiration for his poetry, and followed by short explanations of each poem's meaning in a section titled 'What Robert Was Thinking'. There are definitions included with each poem for words children (and adults) may not be familiar with.This book is part of an established series so obviously there must be a children's market for this type of book but personally I would have preferred to see this book marketed as a gift book. Without the 'for Kids' branding I think the market would have opened right up for this book.The audience for this book is listed as 8+ but I know I wouldn't have appreciated this book as a child. At 8 I was reading Roald Dahl, not poetry books, and I don't think that's so unusual.My fear for this book is that it may be used in schools to teach poetry at kids instead of to kids, and that could ruin Robert Frost for them. I say this because the only poetry I've ever hated with a passion have been poems taught to me. I always baulked at a teacher telling me emphatically what the poet meant by each word, line by line. I wanted to have the opportunity to think about the poem myself and decide what it meant to me, and always wondered if the poet actually intended the poem to be interpreted the way my teacher said was the only way, the right way.Digressing, that reminds me of a story about Alfred Hitchcock helping his granddaughter write an essay for film school about his movieShadow of a Doubt. Her grade? C. So the story goes, he shrugged and said, "That's the best I can do".Anyway ... I grew up adoringThe Road Not Takenbut that was mostly because my Nan used to quote it all of the time and I'd often read the photocopied poem stuck to a wall in her house with Blu-Tack. I don't know I would have liked it as a kid without my Nan's influence.Michael Paraskevas' illustrations are absolutely wonderful! They complement the poetry beautifully. I think adults will like them better than kids though. It's only as an adult that I appreciate artwork like this.I received an ARC from NetGalley (thank you so much to NetGalley and Quarto Publishing Group - MoonDance Press for the opportunity) in exchange for honest feedback.