4.25, rounded down. Will update with some favorite poems!Some of my favorites :“…Since a man must bringTo music what his mother spanked him forWhen he was two: bits of forgotten hate,Devotion: whether or not his mattress hurts:The little dream his father humored: the thingHis sister did for money: what he ateFor breakfast—and for dinner twenty yearsAgo last autumn: all his skipped desserts.The pasts of his ancestors lean againstHim. Crowd him. Fog out his identity.Hundreds of hungers mingle with his own,Hundreds of voices advise so dexterouslyHe quite considers his reactions his,Judges he walks most powerfully alone,That everything is—simply what it is.…”- The Sundays of Satin-Legs Smith“…Still- am I good enough to die for them, is my blood bright enough to be spilled,Was my constant back-question- are they clearOn this? Or do I intrude even now?Am I clean enough to kill for them, do they wish me to killFor them or is my place while death licks his lips and strides to themIn the galley still?(In a southern city a white man saidIndeed, I’d rather be dead;Indeed, I’d rather be shot in the headOr ridden to waste on the back of a floodThan saved by the drop of a black man’s blood.…”- Negro Hero“…2The Certainty we two shall meet by God In a wide Parlor, underneath a Light Of lights, come Sometime, is no ointment now. Because we two are worshipers of life, Being young, being masters of the long-legged stride, Gypsy arm-swing. We never did learn how To find white in the Bible. We want nights Of vague adventure, lips lax wet and warm, Bees in the stomach, sweat across the brow. Now.3Oh mother, mother, where is happiness? They took my lover’s tallness off to war, Left me lamenting. Now I cannot guess What I can use an empty heart-cup for. He won’t be coming back here any more. Some day the war will end, but, oh, I knew When he went walking grandly out that door That my sweet love would have to be untrue. Would have to be untrue. Would have to court Coquettish death, whose impudent and strange Possessive arms and beauty (of a sort) Can make a hard man hesitate—and change. And he will be the one to stammer, “Yes.” Oh mother, mother, where is happiness?…”- Appendix to the Anniad“…First fight. Then fiddle. Ply the slipping string  With feathery sorcery; muzzle the note  With hurting love; the music that they wrote  Bewitch, bewilder. Qualify to sing  Threadwise. Devise no salt, no hempen thing  For the dear instrument to bear. Devote  The bow to silks and honey. Be remote  A while from malice and from murdering,  But first to arms, to armor. Carry hate  In front of you and harmony behind.  Be deaf to music and to beauty blind.  Win war. Rise bloody, maybe not too late  For having first to civilize a space  Wherein to play your violin with grace.…Life for my child is simple, and is good.He knows his wish. Yes, but that is not all.Because I know mine too.And we both want joy of undeep and unabiding things,Like kicking over a chair or throwing blocks out of a windowOr tipping over an ice box panOr snatching down curtains or fingering an electric outletOr a journey or a friend or an illegal kiss.No. There is more to it than that.It is that he has never been afraid.Rather, he reaches out and lo the chair falls with a beautiful crash,And the blocks fall, down on the people's heads,And the water comes slooshing sloppily out across the floor.And so forth.Not that success, for him, is sure, infallible.But never has he been afraid to reach.His lesions are legion.But reaching is his rule.…”- The Womanhood“…Tomorrow. . . . Not that anybody is saying that these people have no trouble. Merely that it is trouble with a gold-flecked beautiful banner.Nobody is saying that these people do not ultimately cease to be. And Sometimes their passings are even more painful than ours. It is just that so often they live till their hair is white. They make excellent corpses, among the expensive flowers. . . .Nobody is furious. Nobody hates these people. At least, nobody driving by in this car. It is only natural, however, that it should occur to us How much more fortunate they are than we are.…”- Beverly Hill, Chicago