The book Speak to Me (And I Will Listen Between the Lines) by Karen English and pictures by Amy June Bates is a compilation of short poems following a group of children throughout a day of school. Personally, I really enjoyed this book and found it interesting and captivating throughout the duration. The story was following six different children, all of African American culture, and they all have their own voice and personality shown through, which added unique perspectives to the read. I enjoyed how the book went chronically throughout how a normal day of school would be. It made me think back to my elementary school days and it brought back memories that I haven't thought of in a long time, which made it fun for me. The difference between students and their specific poems was cool because the difference it showed made me think back to how I was as a student and how different people I grew up with were, this poetry book allowed you to make it personal. Although this wasn't a poetry book based on rhymes or rhythm, the poems still captivated me and did not bore me.The purpose behind this book could span to many different aspects of classroom environments. With the range of poems, you could use this book when explaining classroom rules (with the poem My Spot [Lamont] and No Saving Seats [Brianna]) or explaining the history of ones culture (I Came From The Ones Who Lived [Lamont]). The range of poems make this book a good leeway into numerous different topics within a classroom, and an age range between Kindergarten through Third Grade could find useful poems in this book. This story stems from african american students going to an inner city school, so it is full of diverse perspectives and each poem has different literary elements such as repetition and smilies and metaphors within almost each poem. The language is informal and casual considering these poems are in the minds of young students, making them relatable and relaxed for students to read which is more useful for children of a young age.