Free copy provided by Netgalley in return for an honest reviewPublication date:11th April 2017Review date:27th March 2017I’ve always been a lover of poetry, so when I went thought the “Read Now” section in the poetry genre on Netgalley and foundStuff I’ve Been Feeling Lately, I just had to grab it to read. The cover itself is well produced and it made me wonder what the book could possibly be about. Turns out, the whole book is designed as a mix tape of feelings, and is something that is heavily unique, to my knowledge. I loved this about the book, and it made me all the more determined to read it.I don’t know what I was expecting from this book, in all honesty. It seemed to be a generic ‘I’ve been feeling sad and this is what I’m feeling’ sort of book. I am so glad to say that I was taken by surprise by the amount of flexibility in this collection. We have the poems that scream, I am depressed and I don’t know what to do about it but we also have the poems that scream for recovery, of dragging yourself out of the depths of despair and fixing yourself. Not only do we have the duality of these beautiful poems, but we also have the duality of heartbroken to revival of a broken heart.Cook has created a whole world of pain and recovery in just two hundred and forty two pages.Side A is a set of 100 poems of what Cook has been feeling as she wrote this book. Pain, heartache, despair. Warmth, love, recovery. Each poem I found I could relate to those, and those that I couldn’t relate to reminded me of hope, and how the world will continue on after the pain I am currently going through. Nothing is permanent, no matter how long these things seem to go on for, is something my mother has said to me many times over the past seven years, and Cook has embodied this beautiful advice my mother gave me countless time before. Side A has taught me that, my mother is right. This pain may seem to go on and on forever, and it may seem unbearable; Cook’s writing has taught me that it will be alright, one day, no matter how far away that it. There is always sun after a storm, and recovery after a broken heart. There will always be something to wake up for, even if it’s just the bark of a dog, or the call of a friend.Side B is black out poetry of the poems within Side A, and others (I believe) not published in this collection. They are art, creating new poems with hope in poems originally about despair. I connected with these poems so well and it made my heart bleed. These were absolutely stunning and have taken my breath away. I can’t put into words just how much these all mean to me.Cook has created a mass of poems, all of which can be related to my life, and have brought me back to reality. They have gone through so many problems that I am currently going through and they have opened my eyes to realise that I can recover. Cook’s writing is absolutely beautiful and fluid, and it is so so easy to follow.I highly recommend this to any poetry fan.