Q:Remember, your words are your power. Never forget your words. (c)Q:We drift from star to star, your soul and mine as one (c)Wow! This is unexpectedly cool, poetic and evocative! I might become a fan!I feel the need to memorise half this book...Beware of spoilers!!!Q:Magic tumbled from her pretty lips and when she spoke the language of the universe—the stars sighed in unison. —Michael FaudetI believe we think more deeply about the universe when we’re falling in love. I think the mysterious pull that draws you to another person is identical to the one that moves our eyes upward to the stars. ...As a child, I always loved the romance of the night sky. While writing this new body of work, I revisited that sense of wonder and fascination that I have held as far back as I can remember. The sentiment can be best described as a mixture of nostalgia and longing.In many ways, a book is, in itself, a tiny universe. Each page is like a newly formed galaxy, fashioned from a single, pulsing thought. A book travels for days, for years, sometimes for centuries to meet you at an exact point in time.I hope you enjoy The Universe of Us as much as I have enjoyed putting it together. I like to think it has found you for a reason, even if that reason is only to draw your eyes skyward once more. (c)Q:I would blanket the world in utter darkness; I would pull back the veil of light and reveal to you a blinding crescendo of stars.I would drain all the seven seas and ask you to count—one by one—every grain of sand that clings to the ocean floor.I would tally the beat of every human heart that has echoed since the dawn of our becoming.And as you look in awe at the sheer magnitude of my admission, I would take your hand in mine and tell you; if only you had let me, this is how much I could have loved you.(c)Q:To stretch out my hand and touch the soft, yielding warmth of your skin. But now I have learned the secret of distance. Now I know being close to you was never about the proximity. (c)Q:To the man I love, to my future.The first time I felt your presence, I began joining the dots in the sky, wondering when our stars would align. ...I know you and I are the same in that way—we bruise a little more easily than most. You see, our souls were made in the same breath.I know I’m running late—I’m sorry. Things haven’t worked out the way I planned. But believe me when I tell you I am on my way.Until then, think of me, dream of me and I will do the same. One day I will learn your name, and I will write it somewhere on this page. And we will realize that we have known each other all along.(c)Q:There is something so delicate about this time, so fragile. And if nothing ever comes of it, at least I have known this feeling, this wonderful sense of optimism. It is something I can always keep close to me—to draw from in my darkest hour like a ray of unspent sunshine. No matter what happens next, I will always be glad to know there is someone like you in the world. (c)Q:Your LifeYou’ve wandered off too far,you’ve forgotten who you are;you’ve let down the ones you love,you’ve given up too much.You once made a deal with time,but it’s slipping by too fast;you can’t borrow from the future,to make up for the past.You forsake all that you hold dear,for a dream that is not your own;you would rather live a lie—than live your life alone (c)Q:if I am so hard to love, then let me run wild. My love is not a testament to my surrender....I will never give you what you want in chains. (c)Q:But tomorrow, tomorrow could be different, and that is what keeps me going today. (c)Q:Are you okay; because I love you.Are you okay; because I need you.Are you okay; because I don’t know how to live without you. (c)Q:We may not be in love anymore, but you’re still the only one who knows me. (c)Q:When was the last time you felt like someone knew you and not the person you’ve been pretending to be. When was the last time you felt like yourself. (c)Q:A LessonThere is a girl who smiles all the time,to show the world that she is fine.A boy who surrounds himself with friends,wishes that his life would end.For those that say they never knew—the saddest leave the least of clues (c)Q:It was a kind love, a selfless love. I was a dreamer, and you were a traveler. We met at the crossroads. I saw love in your smile, and I recognized it for the first time in my life. But you had a plane to catch, and I was already home. (c)Q:Yes, I think it is entirely possible to fall in love with someone you’ve never met. Physicality is an expression of intimacy—not an indication of it. (c)Q:A Winter LoveWe were likethe raging sea,a winter lovethat could not be.Our voices werethe ocean’s roar,we cried untilwe could cry no more.We mocked the stormsand they fell the trees,our broken limbsamong scattered leaves.The tides had shownwhat we did not heed,the water holds—and then recedes. (c)Q:Her TimeShe has been feeling it for awhile—that sense of awakening. There is a gentle rage simmering inside her, and it is getting stronger by the day. She will hold it close to her—she will nurture it and let it grow. She won’t let anyone take it away from her. It is her rocket fuel and finally, she is going places. She can feel it down to her very core—this is her time. She will not only climb mountains—she will move them too. (c)Q:I have walked through the ruins of an empire as it fell through the passageway of time. I have witnessed star after star exploding like fireworks, as I fixed my gaze light-years into the sky. (c)Q:EpiphanyHere are the words that have brought me to a new understanding. Here are the words that will bind us forever. From this day forward, I will speak your name with gratitude, knowing it is the mantra of my soul. I will let you go, knowing we are eternal. We were born to walk this world in intersecting lines. We are circles and signposts and parallels. I have left markers for you at every turn. Look for me in everything that catches your breath. Let the simple miracle of your own presence overwhelm you. For you are beautiful, in ways that can’t be described. And we are love at its most inexplicable. With these words, I am one with divinity. With these words, I am one with you. (c)Q:Are you like me? Are you alive or just pretending? (c)Q:AwakeI was loved in my dreams last night. It echoed through me like thunder—I felt it through and through.When I woke up, I couldn’t shake the feeling of his arms around me and the sound of his voice, already half forgotten.The loss was indescribable. And I couldn’t help that feeling of certainty that I have felt this way before. Somewhere in time, throughout the ages, I was loved—I was loved and my eyes were wide open. (c)Q:Nine LivesDoes the past ever appear before you, like a bolt in the blue? Something or someone from many lives ago. It knocks you right off your feet, just when you thought you’d found solid ground. But it’s only an illusion, isn’t it? (c)Q:A Beautiful CollisionThere was a feeling of inevitability when I met you. The sense that we would be together; that there would be a moment when you would look at me in a certain way, and we would cross the threshold from friendship into something so much more.We spoke once about lovers who kept finding each other, no matter how many times the world came between them. ...But our bodies are made of stardust, and we are hurtling through space and time, toward the most beautiful collision. (c)Q:She walks the earth freely, yet her feet never touch the ground. Many hands will reach for her, but she cannot be anchored. She belongs to no one, to nothing, to nowhere. When you meet her, you will recognize her for who she is—a free spirit, a wandering star. (c)Q:The EssenceI saw a swaying tree,I felt it sway in me.A bird trilled out her song,To me this song belongs.What’s given is not gone—in something it lives on (c)Q:She doesn’t know how she came to be like this, how she ended up here. She only remembers the way she used to be—wild and reckless. Bold and unapologetic. (c)Q:CirclesMy mind, a Venn diagram.You, the overlap and the intersect;a pulsating glimmer—omnipresent,a lighthouse with its glowing breath.You are the stone that skirts the river,that skips along its crystal plane;a surface skimmed by concentric shimmer,and trembles with the touch of rain.You are worlds that spin in orbit,a star who rose and fell;infinity summoned for audit—a penny toss in the wishing well (c)Q:Tell me where to put the stars. Show me how the oceans keep spilling over. Your smile is a blazing trail of light, shot down from the heavens. (c)Q:HeHe is the thought behind the feeling,the swelling in my chest;the starlight in the evening,the yearning when I undress.He is the sound behind the sighing,the song of every bird;the tears in all my crying,the ache in every word (c)Q:He and I collided like two predestined stars and in that brief moment I felt what it was like to be immortal. (c)