This is a narrative poem of 61 pages in which Foulds describes the experience of a young man who has just finished school and who is returning home until it is time to take up his place at university, probably either Oxford or Cambridge.So far, so relatively unexceptional. But the youth in question, Tom, is white and British, home is in Kenya, and the time is 1953 during the Mau Mau rebellion. And thus the young man and his family - father, mother, and his sister Kate with whom he gets on well, perhaps ‘swimmingly’ might be the word – is pressured into the social role of defence volunteer and upholder of British values, of law and order, and of European hegemony over the black man – especially when it comes to defending land seized from the Africans as the self-declared right of the colonizer.Suffice it to say, he learns to kill and is brutalized by witnessing the casual racist cruelty of the detention camps run by the British for Mau Mau prisoners. Eventually he hears the camp commander declare of a resisting prisoner ‘“This one’s just bought a ticket to Compound Nine”’. (Although Tom has not been in Compound Nine he knows it is the worst of the worst because he has seen the men who are returned from it where they have been under the supervision of “specialists”.) Foulds’ laconic line that follows - ‘“Oh no he hasn’t,” Tom whispered’ - is followed by an event that leads to Tom’s being retired from the volunteers.The narrative concludes during Tom’s first year at university where he is studying Classics:‘Bright metalwork of Trojans, Danaans,well-greaved Achaeansbuckling and unbucklingover an abstract planeas he went over and over,adjusting his translation.’Of course, he is adjusting his own translation from that of a semi-war footing in a foreign land (where his ‘home’ still is) to an environment of cultivated quiet studiousness where he is expected to study a text about warfare, and he is not finding it easy. He has violent dreams about his tutor and a coal shovel. He witnesses a pub fight with a girlfriend and finds himself shocking her, and himself, by saying “They’re not hurting each other…If you want to see them hurt / I know how to make them suffer,” and later he is sexually aggressive with the same girlfriend. Nevertheless, his sensitivity is not utterly lost to him. Distraught at her coolness and indifference to him afterwards, Foulds’ sub-text allows us to see Tom beginning to know that he must hold fast to that which is good about himself and human experience, and come to terms with what he has felt pressured to do elsewhere.I have some reservations about this sort of subject matter as used by those for whom the events described are history. (Foulds was born in 1974.) Nevertheless, what Foulds does is take the historical reality and use it as a poet should – to say something important to society. In this case it is to offer us the chance to encounter both the appalling things human beings are capable of and the capacity we have to heal. Lord knows, the latter is not always achievable, as evidenced in Tom’s father whose experience in WW2 has affected him so deeply, he is understood by the rest of his fellow expatriates to be excused defence duties. But Foulds’ story also considers the power of fear and courage, the pressures of social expectation, the dreadful strength of parental emotional blackmail and the disgraceful misuse of religion. I was stirred emotionally, and felt the need to think through what I had read.Finally, Foulds’ adopts a paragraphed, short-line free-verse form that makes his narrative very readable. But though the verse is free, there is a sense that it is tautly put together, well honed, anything gratuitous edited out. For the most part it is strikingly plain - prosy might one say? – in its styling, as one might expect from a novel -‘Two more numbers were called.The five were led out,past three prisoners up to their necksin the ground for a minor offence…’- but then an unexpected image will be used to sharpen the impression –‘…their heads sticking up like croquet hoops.’ (Personally, I think the facts speak more than enough, though maybe Foulds wants us to understand that Tom’s mental state is deteriorating into seeing the brutal as ludicrous.)And then the poetic urge towards imagery will sometimes take over to re-engage the reader –‘Arm high over his head, he flexedhis little black leather biblelike a muscle sprung from his body.His centre-parted hair flappedits stumpy wings as he jerked,his pale lips gymnastic.’Anyway, for me, this approach to writing a mini-epic worked well, and shows what the imagination at its most focused can achieve. ‘The Broken Word’ is well worth trying, but be warned, it’s not a comfortable journey.