Blue jay vocalizes a clash on the colourwheel, tulip heads removed one by onewith a sand wedge. Somethingin the frequency. Expectations are high.There's a reason it's called the nervoussystem. Someone in bed at 11 a.m.impersonates an empty house. The sharpener'sdragged his cart from the shed. His bellrings out from the twelfth centuryto a neighbourhood traumatizingfood with dull knives. A hammer clawsto the edge of a reno and peers out. Inchingup its pole, a tentative flag. And the source?Oh spring, my heart is in my mouth.-Ode, pg. 1* * *Gratitude toward the houseplants, shamefor what they must endure. Of particular concern,the azalea, flowering like the gesture and criesof someone off the trail who sees a helicopter.A long cold night is coming on.Is it dying or being killed?When I'm 100 percent on what's happening,there's still the niggling five. Too muchwater, neglect, information. Decisionsmade at the executive level.Science tells us plants emit signatures and responseson yet another frequency we cannot hear.That's all we need. When little,we were told our heads were in the clouds.Now we suspect the opposite.-Your News House Is Now Two Hours, pg. 16* * *The perspective is unfamiliar.We hadn't looked back, driving in,and lingered too longat the viewpoint. It was a prime-of-lifeexperience. Many things we knowby their effects: void in the rockthat the river may advance, voidin the river that the fish may advance,helicopter in the canyonlike a fly in a jar, a mote in the eye,a wandering cause. It grew dark,a shift change and a shiftin protocol. To the surface of the roada trail rose, then a path to the surfaceof the trail. The desertsent its loose rock up to see.An inaudible catastrophic orchestrais turning, we feel it in the airimpelled before it, as a pressureon the brain. In the dayseparate rays fall so thicklyfrom their source we cannot perceivethe gaps between them, but nightis absolute, uniform, and self-derived, the formerly irrelevantbrought to bear, the progressof its native creatures unimpeded.We have a plan between us, and then weeach have our own. Land of the fourcorners, the silent partner, $500down, no questions, the rental carstops at the highway intersection, a filthyviolent storm under the hood. It yieldsto traffic from both directions.It appears it could go either way.-The Road In is Not the Same Road Out, pg. 40* * *Sun of breakdown, sunin a cage, risen overa concrete floor, gutting table,beer bottles. Formfrom function dislocated,the hood is upin an unsound hour.Five-gallon pail, ragand cord on the unshadowedstage, which isexclusive. Burningin the shop in the middleof the night.Something isn't right.-Trouble Light, pg. 60* * *Pea weevil as eye headache.Barbed wire, smart casual.Four-stroke my electronica.Clay mud my hospital.Rattlesnake as concierge,Lanius, campaign of enemies.Axe of kerf in contemplation.East wind my ibuprofen.Distemper. Disambiguation.Red oxide as verdigris.Monsanto our atelier -From the inside, it dresses meIn esters of phosphoric acid.The Psalms, a field of grasses.-Rural Conflation Sonnet, pg. 70