‘today we are possible.’‘Lucille is another word for light,’ wrote the greatToni Morrisonin an essay on Lucille Clifton, ‘which is the soul of ‘enlightenment.’ And she knew it.’ Lucille Clifton is my absolute favorite poet. She is an immortal icon in the art form and just a delight to read and learn from. It is difficult to review a ‘collected works’ so I’d like to make this a celebration of her in general because her work is such a momentous achievement and gift. She is remarkable. Her works centers on empowering explorations of the Black experience and womanhood told through succinctly perfect poetry. Let’s take a moment to celebrate the life and legacy of Lucille Clifton, and what better way to begin than with the poem ‘won’t you celebrate with me’ from the collectionThe Book of Light:won't you celebrate with mewhat i have shaped intoa kind of life? i had no model.born in babylonboth nonwhite and womanwhat did i see to be except myself?i made it uphere on this bridge betweenstarshine and clay,my one hand holding tightmy other hand; come celebratewith me that everydaysomething has tried to kill meand has failed.Lucille Clifton was born Thelma Lucille Sayles, in Depew, New York on June 27, 1936. She studied at Howard University before transferring to State University of New York at Fredonia. Here she was introduced to Fred Clifton, a philosophy professor who would become her husband, in 1958 by none other thanIshmael Reedas he was organizing a community Drama workshop in Buffalo. Both Lucille and Fred starred in Reed’s production of Tennessee William’sThe Glass Menagerie.Lucille had shown her poetry to Reed who enjoyed it so much he passed it along to his friend, the greatLangston Hughesin 1966. Her work would be included in his anthologyThe Poetry Of The Negro, 1746-1970, which really kickstarted her career. Her first collection,Good Times, would go on to be included in the New York Time’s 10 Best Books of the Year. From here she would go on to a highly regarded and decorated career, having a double Pulitzer Prize nomination (the first poet to do so), served as the Poet Laureate of Maryland, won the Ruth Lily Poetry Prize in 2007 and was honored with a Robert Frost Lifetime Achievement Award. In addition to poetry, Clifton wrote many children’s books, herEverett Anderson's Goodbyewas given a Coretta Scott King Award in 1984. She would taught at many universities, including St. Mary’s College of Maryland, Colombia and Dartmouth. Sadly, Lucille Clifton passed away from cancer on February 13, 2010.blessing the boats(at St. Mary's)may the tidethat is entering even nowthe lip of our understandingcarry you outbeyond the face of fearmay you kissthe wind then turn from itcertain that it willlove your back may youopen your eyes to waterwater waving foreverand may you in your innocencesail through this to that.There is a powerful simplicity to a Lucille Clifton poem. She refrains from capitalization and there is never any excess in her work, just direct and perfectly constructed poetry that sings from the heart louder and more beautiful than all the choirs on earth. PoetRita Doveonce described Clifton’s poetry as as‘Lucille Clifton’s poems are compact and self-sufficient...Her revelations then resemble the epiphanies of childhood and early adolescence, when one’s lack of preconceptions about the self allowed for brilliant slippage into the metaphysical, a glimpse into an egoless, utterly thingful and serene world.’In such a small space, Clifton is able to say so much and say it so memorably. ‘I don’t go get a poem,’ Clifton said about her writing process, ‘it calls me and I accept it.’ This idea of channeling a poem is evident in her work, that speaks from so deep down in the soul it is as if magic. Because if there is anything magical in this world, it is the poetry of Lucille Clifton.‘Poetry is a matter of life, not just a matter of language.’Much of her work centers Blackness and womanhood, examining the intersections between them in a way that speaks out proudly and confidently. ‘She sifts the history of African Americans for honor,’ write Toni Morrison, ‘she plumbs that history for justice...From humor to love or rage, Clifton’s poems elicit a visceral response.’ Clifton tackles topics of sexuality, gender and race as something to take pride in and to uplift others. ‘I come to comfort the afflicted and to afflict the comfortable,’ she once wrote, and she takes each topic head on to make her voice heard. In poems such asHomage to my HairandHomage to my Hips, she speaks openly of the Black woman body as something holy:homage to my hipsthese hips are big hipsthey need space tomove around in.they don't fit into littlepetty places. these hipsare free hips.they don't like to be held back.these hips have never been enslaved,they go where they want to gothey do what they want to do.these hips are mighty hips.these hips are magic hips.i have known themto put a spell on a man andspin him like a top!She writes of the strength of Black women, but reminds us that this strength is something that was imposed on them for survival. ‘America made us heroines / not wives.’ she writes in the poemBlack Women, ‘we hid our ladyness / to save our lives.’ She consistently reminds us that Black women exist in a world controlled by white men and towards this she shakes a fist of liberation. She speaks of the ways she is targeted because she has the bravery to speak out, an act that is brave because the white population has made it dangerous.i feel the reverberationof myselfin white americaa black catin the belfryhangingandringing(fromwhite america)There is a proud womanhood at work within her poetry that reminds us of how incredible a strong woman is in a world so set against her. Poems such as ‘wishes for sons’ fromNext: New Poemsdemonstrates her wry humor as a method of devastating satire.‘i wish them cramps.i wish them a strange townand the last tampon.i wish them no 7-11.i wish them one week earlyand wearing a white skirt.i wish them one week late.later i wish them hot flashesand clots like youwouldn't believe. let theflashes come when theymeet someone special.let the clots comewhen they want to.let them think they have acceptedarrogance in the universe,then bring them to gynecologistsnot unlike themselves.Motherhood, childbirth, and miscarriage all are granted heroic and mythical proportions in her work. There is a rightful rage directed towards the oppression of Black people, such as inthe photograph: a lynching, or the promise that Black liberation will come and the fate of the obdurate white hegemony will be one of their own making, even opening this interpretation to one of climate justice:‘the airyou have pollutedyou will breathethe watersyou have poisonedyou will drink’She writes to give strength as a call-to-arms, to give comfort, and to leave those who disagree shaking in their shoes. It is a voice that is brave and bold, one that commands attention and respect.‘...she opens herselfto the risk of flame andwalks toward an oceanof days.’(fromnew year)Clifton plays with language in a clever way, often using mythological and biblical allusions to add an element of the epic to human nature. In her series of lucifer poetry, she subverts the idea of the devil by reclaiming him through his association with darkness/blackness.‘i the only luciferlight-bringercreated out of fireilluminate i couldand soilluminate i did.’The poem plays with concepts of Adam and Eve, in which Eve speaks as a voice of truth in an active voice instead of as a passive, ‘treacherous’ image that patriarchal readings of the Bible have accustomed to readers. Though there is likely no better image of the divine and letting oneself go to fate thanthe lesson of the falling leaves:the leaves believesuch letting go is lovesuch love is faithsuch faith is gracesuch grace is godi agree with the leaves.Clifton has great commentary on mortality, often reflecting on death such as the loss of her husband from cancer and her own struggles with breast cancer. ‘have we not been good children / did we not inherit the earth,’ she asks in1994, speaking of her own cancer diagnosis. ‘to be born with breasts / you know how dangerous it is / to wear dark skin.’ she says earlier, confronting the health care disparity that harms the Black community. ‘this woman / this one precious, perishable kingdom’ she writes, looking death in the eye and acknowledging the fate that must befall us all.‘you might as well answer the door, my child, the truth is furiously knocking.’I first discovered Lucille Clifton 10 years back in college. Through a clerical error, my 400 level class--what it was meant to be has long been forgotten--was accidentally assigned to Women’s Studies of Modern African American Poetry. I thought something was off when I purchased my textbooks but I showed up the first day anyway. The first day we dove into Lucille Clifton andAudre Lordeand I was hooked. I had previously had an interest in poetry but not the language to describe it. After the first lecture the teacher pulled me aside, as I was not on her roster and was actually not supposed to be there but she encouraged me to remain in her course. There was a prerequisite I had not taken she said she would wave on the condition that I read the entirety ofSister Outsider: Essays and Speechesby Lorde and have a conversation with her about it at the end of the course. This class changed my life forever. It was where I really learned to love poetry, especially as we wrote intense, weekly essays dissecting specific poems. For the final assignment we were given a topic at random to research poetry about and write a 15 page paper, I was assigned poetry about miscarriage. The heart of my paper centered around Clifton’sthe lost baby poemthe time i dropped your almost body downdown to meet the waters under the cityand run one with the sewage to the seawhat did i know about waters rushing backwhat did i know about drowningor being drownedyou would have been born into winterin the year of the disconnected gasand no car 	we would have made the thinwalk over genesee hill into the canada windto watch you slip like ice into strangers’ handsyou would have fallen naked as snow into winterif you were here i could tell you theseand some other thingsif i am ever less than a mountainfor your definite brothers and sisterslet the rivers pour over my headlet the sea take me for a spillerof seas 	let black men call me strangeralways 	for your never named sakeThis poem has always stuck in my mind and I feel forever in debt to the way Lucille Clifton unlocked the language of poetry to me. It is my favorite art form and I have grown to love her work so much that I cannot think of poetry without immediately turning to her work.‘Poems come out of wonder, not out of knowing’If a collected works is daunting to you, I might recommend beginning withBlessing the Boats: New and Selected Poems, 1988-2000, Clifton’s National Book Award winning selected works. She is a towering giant in American poetry and one of the most empowering and heartfelt poets you will ever encounter. I cannot recommend her more highly and I have a true, deep love and respect for her. I’d like to leave you with a video of one of my other favorite poets,Jericho Brown, talking about and reading a poem by Lucille Clifton:https://twitter.com/tmagazine/status/...Do yourself a massive favor and read her work.5/5as the day arriveswith all its clumsy blessingswhat we will becomewaits in us like an ache.