Penguin Classics edition, tr. A.E. StallingsThis translation begins beautifully, which initially made me keen to read the rest of it.Life-stirring Venus, Mother of Aeneas and of Rome,Pleasure of men and gods, you make all things beneath the domeOf sliding constellations teem, you throng the fruited earthAnd the ship-freighted sea – for every species comes to birthConceived through you, and rises forth and gazes on the light.The winds flee from you, Goddess, your arrival puts to flightThe clouds of heaven. For you, the crafty earth contrives sweet flowers,For you, the oceans laugh, the skies grow peaceful after showers,Awash with light. For soon as morning wears the face of spring,And the West Wind is free and freshens, warm and quickening,The airy tribe of birds, O Holy One, is first to startHeralding your approach, struck with your power through the heart;Then beasts, the wild and tame alike, go romping over the lushPastureland and swim across the rivers’ headlong rush…This may be somewhat misleading if you've never read the poem before - indeed, Richard Jenkyns in the introduction calls the beginning "the most magnificent and spectacular act of worship in classical Latin literature". But it's also a great example of how the atheist Epicurean Lucretius thinks it's entirely valid to use the gods in metaphor and artistic imagery whilst also repudiating their existence on a factual level. And how well he writes that imagery (and Stallings too).That metre: "Fourteeners ... widely used in the sixteenth century by English translators of Latin tragedy and epic, who seem to have considered it the native equivalent of the classical hexameter"(Stallings). I love a historically appropriate choice like this.I hadn't seriously thought of reading Lucretius before this year, but in two different works about Machiavelli - William Landon's Great Courses lecture seriesBooks that Matter: The Prince, and Alexander Lee's big new biography,Machiavelli: His Life & Times(2020), plus a few other papers, it had become clear that Lucretius is now seen as an important influence. (Machiavelli being a topic I was landed with at university twenty years ago, and have always felt I had unfinished business with due to not doing much work on him at the time.) Meanwhile, over 100 years after Machiavelli, Sir Thomas Browne, even more cautious in matters of religion, had advised "avoid reading too much Lucretius, “there being divers impieties in it, and ’tis no credit to be punctually versed in it”," I read this summer in the introduction to the NYRBReligio Medici & Urne Buriall. I looked at two or three of the most popular recent Lucretius translations, and this one in particular seemed lovely.The Nature of Things- an epic poem about atheism and science - is a fantastic idea, and in the historical context, a subversive one. There must be a lot of people out there who would love it, but who've probably never thought of it as something they might read.For me, there were two major obstacles which made it a slog at times. I usually love epic poems, but I overall found this one heavier-going than any I've read. (A friend suggested to me in August that news might put me off starting it: Boris Johnson had publicly talked about Lucretius as his summer reading, but I am - in Epicurean style - currently keeping away from news and politics to the extent that I still don't know anything more about this, which edition(s) he read, what he thought of it etc, and for the moment don't care to.)Firstly, whilst there are quite a few statements I agree with inThe Nature of Things, and arguments that are reasonable, I do have a sense of something missing, and I especially noticed that at times when I'd just been listening to theRig Vedaon audio. It feels to me like ancient poetry and spirituality go together and that it's strange without the latter, an idea I'm sure would have exasperated Lucretius. He does occasionally include god metaphors and lovely descriptions of natural phenomena, from Brownian motion to charismatic megafauna, and adorable images like "flocks of stars grazing their way across the night sky". Evidently he is showing that the world can still be wondrous without religious belief and through scientific fact - much as Richard Dawkins would assert two millenia later inUnweaving the Rainbow. "Here is the deepest reason why Lucretius’ philosophy must be poetry also," says Jenkyns. "You cannot command a person into a feeling".And then I have never got on very well with old non-fiction. As I think I've said in an earlier review, this was always a secret shame of mine when I was studying history, and likewise later, with psychology I never had any inclination to read a book of Freud cover to cover, although I knew from recent publications how indebted certain areas of modern psychology are to him (including the currently buzzy field of trauma), and that those who still assume all of Freud is 1-star hogwash are misinformed. I love social history, the history of popular culture and customs - and I'm very interested to hear summaries of old theories and beliefs in secondary sources. But ploughing through hundreds of pages of science from hundreds of years ago, at least half of it now superseded, has never been my idea of fun for some reason. The notes in this edition of Lucretius could also have been more helpful in explaining what modern knowledge is on some of his theories, as a lot of its readers, especially in the UK - where education specialises earlier - won't have studied physics beyond the age of 16, if even that far. There were various points on which I knew the correct/modern take, but on several was not sure, especially in the first half, and I won't be alone in that.Yet I'm currently enthralled by the details of everyday late medieval life in a modern version ofPiers Plowman, a text I understand bores a lot of Eng Lit students - and I'm sure there are readers out there who would feel similarly about the Roman science inThe Nature of Things. A lot of it is astoundingly correct and perceptive, especially considering they didn't have microscopes - and other bits are just plain wrong but understandably so (oh, but beasts did "crawl from briny pools to land" as part of evolution), or weirdly wrong. (Among the latter: Why, if one has observed that shadows occur because light is blocked, then assume that the darkness of night is because of particles of darkness? If making other correct deductions about how the body worked from injuries to parts of it, injuries that were evidently more often seen by the public in the grisly Roman world than now, how did they not conclude that the head was the seat of the mind?) If you find that sort of primary-source history of science interesting, you should read this - and as it's rather a modern translation and short it'll be easier than ploughing through Newton or similar.Though there are details of Roman life inThe Nature of Thingsin metaphors and analogies. Having read theOdysseyearlier this year, and seen how background details show nature as wilder and closer, and a world of small chiefdoms, it was evident in Lucretius how much more urbanised and technological the Romans were. Different enough that it seemed a little odd to be tagging both as 'Classical antiquity' when I have 'medieval' and 'early modern' separate - but then I've never specialised in the Classical world. There are lions in both - but in Lucretius the lions might be caged, as if for the arena. Yet Romans - at least the readership Lucretius expected - had considerably more knowledge of nature than the average 21st century Westerner; he can refer to wild plants assuming the reader will know their scent:Take anything that breathes forth from its flesh a pungent smell –Heal-all, loathsome wormwood, overpowering lad’s-love, fellCentaury – and then lightly pinch it with your thumb and fingerFor the non-Classicist, it's perhaps easy to forget how lively and lived-in Roman buildings once were. Not after this:Dizzy children think the columns in a peristyleAre going round, and that the entire court is in a spin,Once they themselves stop turning, so that they almost beginTo believe the house threatens to tumble in about their ears.And a reference to "the overwhelming fumes of charcoal" reminded me of how medieval people disliked coal and its smoke (there was legislation against burning it in London) before its use became inevitable due to wood shortage and population growth.In contrast with the Roman-ness is some of the poetry: there are some very modern-sounding passages here, sometimes frustratingly unannotated. They jump out. I'd really like to know whether this is Lucretius being surprisingly modern, or if it's Stallings. Though she does at least explain, when using a line from Shelley's 'Ozymandias' that she adopted it - otherwise one might plausibly have wondered (with Shelley being a famous atheist) if Lucretius had inspired the same line in the 19th century poem. At one point a similar Wordsworth reference/borrowing is noted, though an "untrodden ways" suggesting one of the Lucy poems, is not. No doubt there were others from poets I know even less of. Meanwhile, some notes quote lines from other, later poets influenced by Lucretius, in a sort of mirror image of the notes often found in comparatively recent classic literature. And not only poets: this passage about the seasons is thought to have inspired Botticelli'sPrimavera:Spring and Venus come, and wingèd Cupid leads the way,And Mother Flora, in Zephyr’s footsteps, scatters a bouquetOf blossoms coloured bright to catch the eye, and smelling sweet,Carpeting the path that stretches out before their feet.Scorching Heat comes next, with Ceres head to toe in dust,Attended by the Northerlies that in the summer gust;Next in the annual procession, we see Autumn traipse,Swaying arm and arm with Dionysus, lord of grapes,Then other seasons follow, and the other winds blow past:Volturnus the sky-thunderer, the South-wind’s lightning blast.And then, with snow and frost in tow, the Solstice of the year,While Winter, his teeth chattering with cold, brings up the rear.The poem's main content and message - about atheism - feels astonishingly contemporary for a Roman work. If you read much content from the New Atheist movement of the 00s, all the usual arguments are here, and at least one which, IIRC, wasn't inThe God DelusionorGod Is Not Great, as I remember working it out for myself, through a fog of illness - a recursive epiphany that I was glad my mind could still muster - in spring 2008 on a miserable holiday with a soon-to-be-ex, not long after reading Dawkins' bestseller. The soul, the self, the personality,isthe nervous system (as the latter two can be changed through damage to the nervous system). Or as Lucretius puts it:For the spirit is so closely bound up with the veins and tissue,Sinews and bones, that even teeth possess a share of sense:One of the key ideas that Lucretius is missing in the poem, and seems to need, to be grasping for, is the nervous system. (The modern idea of body organ systems was centuries away yet.)However, though there is acknowledgement, in the poem that damage to the body can damage the spirit, there isn't consideration of how this fits with something mentioned by Jenkyns: "Both Stoicism (which does believe in a divine providence) and Epicureanism assert that the mind of the wise man, enlightened by philosophy, is an impregnable citadel."The historical Jesus almost certainly hadn't been born when Lucretius was writing, so there was no 2000 years of Christianity to draw on for examples. However, in discussing cruelties perpetrated in the name of religion - in tones very much like those of the early 21st century - there's a Greek foundational myth to return to: Agamemnon's sacrifice of Iphigenia.It's surely no coincidence that this translation was published in 2007, when interest in atheist literature had been building for several years. But codified atheism seems to have arrived alongside axial age religion itself. It was even kind of retro: "Epicurus held that natural science is the route to philosophical understanding, and his system, from one point of view, can be seen as the revival, in a transformed shape, of an older tradition of Greek thought," before "the discovery that science and philosophy are different modes of enquiry … in the later fifth century Socrates made the distinction absolute." Very similar to a contemporary point of view in which psychology and neuroscience are expected to answer many of the questions of philosophy. (One which I tend to like, but a number of philosophy enthusiasts on GR don't.)Also in here are commonly-heard arguments against reincarnation - though with an unusual conclusion that if one can't remember a previous incarnation, there may as well be simple death; and besides, a form of reincarnation exists through the recycling of matter and particles that make up the body.Like Dawkins' atheist church idea, and various atheist meetups that endeavoured to replicate the structure of religious practice, "Epicurus … seems to have wanted his followers to form a kind of ‘church’, encouraging them to share their lives together" - and may, ironically, have influenced Christianity.The abrupt ending to what is surely an unfinished work - an account of the Plague of Athens - would be eerie at the best of times, and is more evocatively so in 2020. But my overriding impression of the poem's message is that the so-called Four Horsemen of New Atheism were really just footnotes to Lucretius.(Sept-Oct 2020)