"I am filled with you.Skin, blood, bone, brain, and soul.There's no room for lack of trust, or trust.Nothing in this existence but that existence."I have deliberately taken over 6 years to read this book. I wanted to savor it like fine wine. This book is an anthology of the theologian, jurist and mystic known as "The Roman" despite being born in Afghanistan and writing mostly in Persian (though he did live in the former Eastern Roman Empire for much of his life). This book is controversially translated byColeman Barkswho opted for a poetic translation instead of a literal one. This often comes up when translating poetry. I remember seeing this same controversy over english translations ofThe Divine Comedy. With Dante, I elected for a poetic translation and I do so here. Even with Barks' filter, the thesis is still Rumi's. I will not waste too much time feebly trying to describe this book, but I feel obligated to say a few words. This book displays the heights of Sufism in the Middle Ages and the descriptions of sensual, erotic, neo-platonic, and divine love in this collection is staggering. Rumi is not some ancient hippie poet, but he keeps his faith and his interpretaiton of it as the key to fully understanding his poetry. I offer here, for instance, my favorite of the bunch, "The Question":"One Dervish to another, What was your vision of God's presence?I haven't seen anything.But for the sake of conversation, I'll tell you a story.God's presence is there in front of me, a fire on the left,a lovely stream on the right.One group walks towards the fire, into the fire, another toward the sweet flowing water.No one knows which are blessed and which not.Whoever walks into the fire appears suddenly in the stream.A head goes under on the water surface, that head pokes out of the fire.Most people guard against going into the fire,and so end up in it.Those who love the water of pleasure and make it their devotion are cheated with this reversal.The trickery goes further.The voice of the fire tells the truth saying, I am not fire.I am fountainhed. Come into me and don't mind the sparks.If you are a friend of God, fire is your water.You should wish to have a hundred thousand sets of mothwings, so you could burn them away, one set a night.The moth sees light and goes into the fire.You should see fire and go toward the light.Fire is what of God is world-consuming.Water, world-protecting.Somehow each gives the appearance of the other. To these eyes you have now, what looks like water burns.What looks like fire is a great relief to be inside.You've seen a magician make a bowl of rice seem a dish full of tiny live worms.Before an assembly with one breath he made a floor swarm with scorpions that weren't there.How much more amazing God's tricks.Generation after generation lies down defeated, they think, but they're like a woman underneath a man,circling him.One molecule-mote-second thinking of God's reversalof comfort and pain is better than attending any ritual.That splinter of intelligence is substance.The fire and water themselves:Accidental, done with mirrors."This is a small sample of the package that you get with Jalāl ad-Dīn Muhammad. Though he spent his life mostly as an Islamic jurist and theologian (positions he inherited from his father), it was not until he met a traveling mystic named Shams of Tabriz that his transformation into Sufi devotee and master happened. When Shams was killed by Rumi's jealous students, his career as poet and dervish began and it has been his claim to fame for over 700 years. For Rumi Shams did not die, but became whole. Rumi would spend the rest of his life trying to become whole as well.An Egypt That Doesn't Exist:"I want to say words that flameas I say them, but I keep quietand don't try to make both worldsfit in one mouthful.I keep secret in myselfan Egypt that does not exist.Is that good or bad? I don't know.For years I gave away sexual lovewith my eyes. Now I don't.I am not in any one place.I do not have a name for what I give away.Whatever Shams gave,that you can have from me."