This 1920s translation by Hugh Evelyn-White, now in the public domain, seems okay. A couple of widely-available audio versions of Hesiod, free, or on Scribd subscription, use it. I listened toTheogonyand ended up reading along while listening toWorks & Days, because it had the sort of detailed new material that I find easier to absorb in writing.TheogonyIn Evelyn-White'sTheogonythere are phrases that are less than clear if you don't already know all the details, e.g. making it sound like Athene was destined to have two children, a girl Tritogenia, and a son - but this information refers to her mother Metis, and Tritogenia is another name for Athene. Or that any sacrifice and prayer was of interest to Hecate, as if it implicitly means those to all other deities too; was that part of the lore?Victorian-style vocab sometimes seems merely quaint, e.g. "shapely-ankled Alcmene", but the choice to call Cronos' father Uranus "Heaven" is plain confusing. (Was the latter due to avoidance of double entendres and the tedium of snickering students after years as a don?) Use of words like this with strong Christian association also leads to ideas which either jar, or highlight huge differences in culture, or both, depending on perspective, e.g. "Heaven rejoiced in his evil doing". This isn't the first time in the last few months that I've seen the word "sin" used in a Classical text, and yet this is never accompanied by discussion of the original words and how the meanings and significance differed. Perhaps a different word would avoid that baggage, but might be burdensome for scansion.Hesiod, along with Homer, is the oldest written source on Greek mythology and religion, and, you will probably read Hesiod when already familiar with most of the stories; it sometimes confirms, sometimes adds variation, to versions well-known these days. (Such as Ariadne becoming the wife of Dionysus.) There are genealogies of deities and heroes rarely referenced now, and the effect is rather like the paragraphs of 'begats' in the Bible.Some of the most interesting phrases and stories:- at the beginning, the Muses wash at "the Horse’s Spring" before beginning their song and dance to Zeus and Hera - which you can read as echoing the sacredness of horses to the Indo-European religion from which the Greek branched off, and which is far more evident in theRig Veda. (I assume that as Greece was not as well-suited to riding as regions with greater continuous expanses of relatively flat land, that the cult of horses ended up less prominent there.) Pegasus is mentioned here, but almost in passing, as springing from the head of Medusa and bringing thunder and lightning to Zeus.- "as pitiless as bronze" - I think this is also in Homer, but it's always a tingly reminder of just how old the material from these texts is, that bronze, not iron, is the byword for this. "Rosy-fingered dawn", so familiar from the Odyssey, is also used.- Before Zeus freed his uncles from Cronos, Earth had hidden thunder and lightning - arguably correlates with the idea of a golden age as found inWorks & Days?- Quite a disquisition on the goddess Echidna. Perhaps those who named the creature had read Hesiod and this is why the name stood out more than those of other deities who are rarely mentioned elsewhere. (Though there might well be references in other later texts I don't know, and the animal has now become *the* meaning of the name so it's unlikely to be used of the goddess in casual recent references.)- "Epimetheus who from the first was a mischief to men who eat bread" - perhaps, like the Golden Age, a folkloric memory of a time before agriculture, though 2700 years ago there must have been travellers around who'd encountered societies who were still foraging and hunting.- I had thought of Prometheus' theft of fire and gift of it to man as a separate story from the creation of Pandora as the first woman. But here Pandora (unnamed) is part of the price of fire - similar to the connection of Eve with the knowledge from the Serpent in Eden, and the proximate geography, both from the East Mediterranean, must mean a common root. (Which I would have thought would have been discussed more in popular sources from a historical viewpoint, because it's the kind of interesting comparative mythology that usually is; it's not even in Wikipedia, and associative passages in classic feminist texts are the main other places I've seen Eve and Pandora discussed together.)- Plutus, god of wealth is the son of Demeter. Which fits with the classical elemental association of wealth with earth, but I hadn't heard it before.Works & DaysI love literature that ends up being a source on pre-modern agriculture. My favourite parts ofAnna Kareninawere the farming scenes (and I didn't much like the rest of it). So of course I findWorks and Daysfascinating and would give it five stars because of that - though I'm a bit wary of actually doing so in case that were read as support of everything in it.It was even more interesting coming to this a couple of days after finishingPiers Plowman. Firstly it has the sort of detailed content about the agricultural year that I always used to think (before actually reading the whole thing) would be a big part of Langland's work, which actually focuses a great deal more on Christianity. And secondly, both authors, who seem to be from freeborn families of modest means, rant about other people's irresponsible behaviour and prescribe what they should do. They make a few identical points, such as, in Evelyn-White's version of Hesiod: "for Hunger is altogether a meet comrade for the sluggard. Both gods and men are angry with a man who lives idle". It is easy to see Hesiod and Langland as earlier examples of a familiar contemporary figure, the opinionated, conservative middle-aged man from the upper working or entrepreneurial middle class. A.E. Stallings, in the introduction to her translation ofWorks & Dayscalls Hesiod a curmudgeon, and I have to agree this is a good word for the both of them.Though Hesiod can seem more like his modern counterpart, because his practical material concerns are closer to day-to-day thinking now, than is the strenuous self-denial that was the ideal of medieval Christianity. There wasn't a conflict between religion and wealth to square:"Through work men grow rich in flocks and substance, and working they are much better loved by the immortals.Though I'm sure that in the Middle Ages, there were also those who'd have agreed with opinions like, "Little concern has he with quarrels and courts who has not a year’s victuals laid up betimes, even that which the earth bears, Demeter’s grain. When you have got plenty of that, you can raise disputes and strive to get another’s goods." One can see a forerunner of 20th century American financial advice books likeThe Richest Man in BabylonandThe Millionaire Next Door:- "He who adds to what he has, will keep off bright-eyed hunger; for if you add only a little to a little and do this often, soon that little will become great."; "It will not always be summer, build barns."- an aim is to be in the position "so you may buy another’s holding and not another yours" (this relates to propitiating the gods)- This type of curmudegeonly conservative business owner of course doesn't like to pay staff when they're not useful, and doesn't want those with other responsibilities that might get in the way: "And so soon as you have safely stored all your stuff indoors, I bid you put your bondman out of doors and look out for a servant-girl with no children;—for a servant with a child to nurse is troublesome."So apparently labourers were out on their ear in autumn, unless they had employers who were wealthy and/or kind enough to feed them year round. Which you'd think would make sense and improve loyalty, and would mean the same good workers would be there next year? Especially if you were concerned with finding high-quality experienced staff: "a brisk fellow of forty years ... who will attend to his work and drive a straight furrow and is past the age for gaping after his fellows." There are undoubtedly social history papers on this labour pattern in Greece, which I've not read - I'm just extrapolating, and thinking about the more recent early modern West European system of hiring fairs and year-and-a-day contracts, you shouldn't take it as a substitute for actual research.- The manner of Hesiod's ambivalence about children, which he considers from a personal practical point of view, is a good fit for the contemporary manosphere: on the one hand they are extra mouths to feed; on the other they maybe a useful support in old age.- This was a world with hardly any public services, so self-reliance was a necessity and not just a preference: "And look after the dog with jagged teeth; do not grudge him his food, or some time the Day-sleeper[robbers]may take your stuff."As in most old religious texts, there is a trust in moral forces that wouldn't have been borne out in the world (here, unlike in Christian works, it isn't overtly said that the reward will be in the afterlife):Neither famine nor disaster ever haunt men who do true justice; but light-heartedly they tend the fields which are all their care.I understand that it's considered unresolved, the extent to which Hesiod's Golden Age is a folk memory of a pre-agricultural foraging society. Since I first read that, I've become aware of how many thousands of years oral legends about volcanoes and earthquakes persisted in indigenous societies (including Australia and America), and how those correlated with archaeological findings, I would now come down on the side that yes, the Golden Age, Eden and so forth *are* folk memories. These, especially in Hesiod, were recorded when writing was still relatively new and so oral tradition would have been stronger at the time. As with the story of Eden, the gods made work harder for the Greeks, and there is a sense that an alternative way of life exists/ed, but is not moral or appropriate now: "For the gods keep hidden from men the means of life. Else you would easily do work enough in a day to supply you for a full year even without working; soon would you put away your rudder over the smoke, and the fields worked by ox and sturdy mule would run to waste."Interestingly, the Greeks' Golden Age included herding, as did the society their religion and language originated from (seeThe Horse, the Wheel & Language: "They dwelt in ease and peace upon their lands with many good things, rich in flocks and loved by the blessed gods."Work seems to be a way to the gods, in Hesiod's view (nearly 2000 years before Protestantism): "between us and Goodness the gods have placed the sweat of our brows: long and steep is the path that leads to her, and it is rough at the first; but when a man has reached the top, then is she easy to reach, though before that she was hard."Years after I first read about Hesiod as the originator of the terms, I still find it amazing that the idea of the Bronze Age and Iron Age are actually themselves 2700 years old. In theTheogonya sickle is made of flint - an understanding of how it was done in ages past - but probably also still was by some other societies Greeks had encountered.But the most fascinating stuff, to me, is hearing, from someone writing nearly 3000 years ago, how people lived with the seasons then - and also, as I'm used to hearing about the agricultural cycle from early modern North-West European sources, how timing was a bit different due to the climate.Mark, when you hear the voice of the crane who cries year by year from the clouds above, for she give the signal for ploughing and shows the season of rainy winter.But if you plough the good ground at the solstice, you will reap sitting, grasping a thin crop in your hand, binding the sheaves awry, dust-covered, not glad at all; so you will bring all home in a basket and not many will admire you. Yet the will of Zeus who holds the aegis is different at different times; and it is hard for mortal men to tell it; for if you should plough late, you may find this remedy—when the cuckoo first calls in the leaves of the oak and makes men glad all over the boundless earth, if Zeus should send rain on the third day and not cease until it rises neither above an ox’s hoof nor falls short of it, then the late-plougher will vie with the early.When Zeus has finished sixty wintry days after the solstice, then the star Arcturus leaves the holy stream of Ocean and first rises brilliant at dusk. After him the shrilly wailing daughter of Pandion, the swallow(So swallows arrived much earlier, in March)Set your slaves to winnow Demeter’s holy grain, when strong Orion first appears, on a smooth threshing-floor in an airy place. Then measure it and store it in jars.(Unlike in the Norse Eddas and sagas, where it's acknowledged that the high-born might end up as slaves if captured, and some slave characters have names, any mentions of slaves by Hesiod are only as tools; there seems to be a sharp divide; they are *other* and not really talked about as people.But a parallel with the Norse, on another subject: Zeus is here described as "the all-wise".)Along with this is advice similar to that found in early modern almanacs (which depending on your perspective is wonderful social history, amusing and/ or silly and irrelevant), on auspicious and inauspicious days for various activities and also births, and various mundane topics. Though the almanacs didn't, so far as I know, include so much advice on where and where not to piss (or 'make water' in Evelyn-White's prim old vocab); it seems to imply that even many homes in Hesiod's time and place might not have designated locations. Some phrases raise more questions: "Take nothing to eat or to wash with from uncharmed pots, for in them there is mischief." Might charms have been said over pots when they were cleaned? Sometimes Hesiod states the obvious, but old texts often leave out other things obvious to people of their time and which did not need to be stated.After finding Epicurus'The Nature of Things, also translated by Stallings, a slog, I'd become more hesitant about reading Hesiod, despite my interest in it. The audio, and the brevity of the public domain version (without more supplementary material) helped break through that, reminding me just how short the text is and I hope to read at least one other version.(January 2021)