2.5 starsI'd been wondering how old Daniel is. Which was why I skimmed through the pages ofJust Like Heavento find some clues. Turned out Honoria is twenty one years old, five years younger than Marcus. Marcus and Daniel are at the same age, and that would be twenty six. Since the first and the second book of Smythe-Smith quartet series are set in the same year, Daniel is still twenty six when he came home to England. Why am I babbling about his age? I had hoped he's much younger. Because that could have explained this:She was beautiful. But that didn’t explain it. He’d seen beautiful women before. He’d slept with plenty of them, even. But this... Her... She... Even his thoughts were tongue-tied.And all the time he could not stop thinking how very much he’d wanted to take her hand. That was all. Just her hand. He would bring it to his lips, and bow his head in tender salute. And he would have known that that simple, chivalrous kiss would be the beginning of something amazing. That was why it would have been enough.Birds were chirping, the sky was blue, the grass was green (as always, but it was still an excellent thing), and he had kissed Miss Wynter. He nearly bounced right off his feet, just thinking about it. It had been splendid. Marvelous. A kiss to deny all previous kisses. Really, he didn’t know what he’d been doing with all those other women, because whatever had happened when his lips had touched theirs, those had not been kisses. Not like last night.For the life of me, I found it so hard to believe a twenty six years old Daniel Smythe Smith, the Earl of Winstead, who (according to his own confession) has had his shares of pursuing physical pleasures (Oh, have I mentioned Daniel is also tall and handsome?), thought and behave like a Romeo the second his eyes catch the rare beauty ofJulietAnne Wynter? All rational thoughts be damned.Good heavens, this was ridiculous. He was a grown man, and here he was moping about his (albeit large) house, all because he missed the company of the governess. He could not sit still, he could not even seem to sit straight. He even had to change chairs in the south salon because he was facing a mirror, and when he spied his reflection, he looked so hangdog and pathetic he could not tolerate it.At least he admits it. As if his romantic way of thinking didn't annoy me enough, all I could remember from everything he said wasAnne, Anne, oh Anne...Oh Daniel, Daniel, Daniel... it's not that I don't believe the power of love! I wouldn't compare him to another heroes by another author. But I have to compare him to another JQ's heroes. He made me remember ofGregory Bridgerton. They share the same pure and simple point of view when it comes to the women they love. But Gregory was a virgin, Daniel is not. He also made me remember ofBenedict Bridgerton. They both fall in love hard at the first sight. But even Benedict, a second son who doesn't inherit the title, is still able to decipher the consequences of loving someone from a different social class.The possibility of men like Daniel do exist makes me happy. Who doesn't want Cinderella's prince charming? But this isn't a kind of fairy tale. I might have found Daniel's ignorance to be believable otherwise. Ah, then again, Benedict's story is a retelling of Cinderella. And yet he knew that nobility doesn't mean you can do whatever you wish to, that despite it carries fortune and power, it also comes with boundaries and responsibilities. Like Benedict, Daniel should have thought about those things and struggled with it before he decided to choose his happy ending. But he had not. To put it simply, he just wasn't my type of hero.And Anne. Oh Anne... why couldn't you help me? You could have saved the book for me. Was it necessary to repeat over and over again the obvious fact that you are a governess and the man you love is an earl? Which, unfortunately, for you it means you could never have him? Why? She didn't help me at all.I laughed sometimes, most at the beginning, and some of the moments with the Pleinsworth sisters. But a few laugh out loud moments couldn't prevent the frustration I got from having to read plenty of confessions about how beautiful Anne is to Daniel, how often he thinks of her, how she can't be with him, and how kind he is to her. Is that all? No, of course there are more. How they enjoy to spend time together just talking about the colors variation of their eyes (also each of their parents's eyes, and the rest of their family), the wonderful scenery and fine weather, the difference between his luxurious gloves and her mended gloves, and do you have any idea how amazing the postal system is? Totally.After the first half of the book, I was in the verge of losing all the interest I had left when some things were starting to surprise me. Sadly, not a good kind of surprises.Daniel proposes. Anne refuses. She runs away. An incident happens. She comes back to him. And she makes an offer to be his mistress.I had thought Anne couldn't make it clearer how little of self respect she had. But no. I'm not done yet.He doesn't want her as his mistress. She confesses she's not a virgin. He still loves her. He proposes again. She accepts. They are about to make love when Anne says:“I think . . . ,” she whispered, but she didn’t finish, at least not right away. “I think that before . . . with George . . .I don’t think it counts.” She lifted her face to his, her eyes shining with love and promise. “Tonight is going to be my first time. With you.”I'm perfectly fine if I'm the only one who thought the bold words was a very wrong thing to say. It's just.. I completely disagreed with Anne. Whether a virginity is taken by force or given with willingness, it is a part of us as a woman. No matter how pleasant or unpleasant it is, it will always be remembered. I didn't think Anne could say it doesn't count just because she doesn't want it to be. It meant either she was lying, or she didn't think it was a part of her. The fact that she had given her first time willingly and she later said it doesn't count made me think she only had so little respect and appreciation for herself.And I had nothing to feel for such a heroine other than pity. I realized this was probably just a matter of misunderstanding of the words. Still, she shouldn't have said it.Everything didn't work for me. Anne is having a walk somewhere in the middle of town and guess what? She sees the bad man she's been running from for years. She enters the nearest shop to hide and guess what? Daniel is there. There are more like those, too much coincidences to go unnoticed.I'm getting to my last rant of the day. The villain. He had foolish motive, he made reckless plans, and while he was executing one of his oh-so-grand plan he did some utterly ridiculous things. To sum it up in two words: highly incompetent.Now, the very last rant. Daniel's mother, Lady Winstead. What could be my problem with her? It is said that his mother has not batted so much as an eyelash when he announces that he plans to marry Miss Wynter, the governess. Very relieving, indeed. Sense and sensibility may rest in peace.I think Lady Winstead might need to consult with Dowager Lady Bridgerton about how to give a more sensible reaction, along with some useful motherly advice and warnings about how the aristocracy might respond if your son wants to marry a woman outside the elites society.I'm done. Terribly disappointed. I wouldn't recommend it to anyone who has never read JQ's before. As for her fans, hope you all enjoy the book and get everything that I missed.