The bones of this book are my catnip: an emotionally dense Greek billionaire marries a middle-class American, dumps her on the (in-law populated) family estate, and proceeds to ruin his marriage by taking his mother's side in every argument and ignoring his wife in favor of work. The specifics of his awfulness are delightfully outrageous:• He not only allows his mother to address his wife (Pollyanna) by the "classier" Anna, HE also uses that version of her name exclusively outside of bed, where he occasionally calls her by her preferred name, Polly. This, despite the fact that his wife has told him directly that she does not like to be called Anna. (more on this later)• He insists that his wife give up her career as a pastry chef to participate on charity committees, to be the perfect corporate asset, as his mother had been for his father. He apparently gave "performance reviews" of her charity work, suggesting areas in which she could improve.• He purchases a home and (on his mother's advice) has it decorated by an exclusive but apparently soulless interior designer without consulting his wife.• He devotes himself to work during his wife's difficult first pregnancy, expecting her to take the advice of his mother (which appears to be "all women suffer in childbearing; stop being a wimp") and only shows up during the last stages of her labor.His justifications for this behavior, irritatingly presented mostly through early internal monologue rather than as explanations and apologies to the heroine, are• A year before he met and married the heroine, his mother had a breakdown after his beloved father's death. As a result, he has become overly indulgent to the women in his birth family, and is paying his wife the "compliment" of believing she is strong enough to endure anything/fight her own corner.• He believed she needed to be inculcated into her new Greek billionaire lifestyle so she would feel more comfortable in her new life.• His corporation was threatened with a hostile takeover during her first pregnancy, and he had to give it all his time and attention not only to protect his father's legacy but also because he knew his wife would want him to protect the hundreds (thousands?) of employees who would be impacted.Seriously, I eat this dense hero nonsense up with a spoon.The problem is, Lucy Monroe decided to experiment with the formula. The book doesn't give us these angsty conflicts and arguments; they're all in the past. Instead, we're five years into the marriage, the wife has withdrawn from her husband and his mother by adopting the sophisticated "Anna" persona as a coping mechanism, and it is the hero -- surprised to learn during a family dinner at the start of the book that his again-pregnant wife doesn't view him as the perfect husband -- who is now putting in all the emotional labor to rescue the marriage. (Not that the marriage needs rescuing. The wife isn't going anywhere as long as he isn't unfaithful or abusive. But their relationship has been deeply damaged by his actions over the years.) Sadly, it turns out that having the man do all the work to repair a relationship is still not a guarantee of a good grovel. We see him make changes in his life to prioritize his wife at last, but "hey, look, I'm awesome now" is not the same thing as apologizing for being truly awful for five long years.I'm going to focus on the name issue as an example of how watered-down this narrative is. We know that the hero's mother, sister, and the hero himself call the heroine Anna instead of Polly. Except Monroe backs away from the last by having the hero call Polly "my wife" when talking about her or use Greek endearments (yineka mou,agape mou) when talking to her at the start of the book, before he switches back to her real name. So we're not really exposed to this egregious misbehavior from him, we're just told about it. Nor do we see how the situation developed in the first place. (We know the cosseted m-i-l instigated it, but did Polly protest at the time or give way, thinking it was a harmless concession to make?) Nor do we see the protagonists' past argument where the heroine specifically told the hero she doesn't want him addressing her as Anna (which he disregarded because he "slipped once too often and realized [he] needed to use it all the time, for consistency"). And that's it. No apology, just an explanation that confirms he did indeed ignore his wife's express wishes in favor of his mother's. Never an apology for stripping her of something so inherent to her sense of self as her own name. And the kicker is the hero's brother and the brother's wife BOTH exclusively call the heroine Polly in front of the mother without ever once being corrected. Polly's brother-in-law is a better husband to her than her husband is.So I feel intellectual outrage instead of emotional angst over the husband's many trespasses, including his continuing to argue that his mother's motivations were/are benign even as he tries to reconcile with his emotionally estranged wife. But the real ratings-killer for me, dropping the book from a "meh" 3 stars to an "ugh" 2 stars, is the heroine. Unlike other Lucy Monroe heroines whose low self-esteem (driven by unloving birth parents, obscure medical conditions, and/or unwed pregnancies) contributes to their misery, Polly is a beautiful, confident woman raised in a loving family. So why did she allow her husband to treat her badly for the two years before her pregnancy "trapped" her in the marriage for the sake of her daughter? Well, the sex, of course. (Frankly, daughter or no, I think she would be out of there like a shot if the sex were dull.) I gave up on this heroine early on, when she drops the bombshell at the family dinner that her husband has never been a "protective and considerate husband" and then acts as if she doesn't understand why that statement would hurt and offend him. I've never seen a heroine so out of touch with basic human understanding. If she were supposed to be neurodiverse, this could be interesting. But she's not. She's just smug in her passive-aggressive self-righteousness.