The Beautiful Bastard Series rolls on with another fabulous romance. Will Sumner proves he can rise to the swoon-worthy ranks of Bennet Ryan & Max Stella…“...You guys are like the Hot Men’s Club of Manhattan."The story of Will and Ziggy is sweet and scorching hot. This series never holds back on the sexy times, and Will quickly establishes that he is an experienced and capable lover of women… He's a tattooed, boob loving, dirty talking, deep thinking, highly educated, slightly perverted, and a sexual fantasy incarnate.Will SumnerKnown player, venture capitalist, business partner of Max Stella (my Book Boyfriend)… and the childhood crush of little Ziggy…Hanna "Ziggy" BergstromStudent, science-geek, and completely lacking a brain-to-mouth filter. She is on a mission to understand the dating scene…Hanna has been studying so hard in the lab at Colombia University while working on her Masters Degree, that she has completely neglected her social life… Her family visits New York and encourages her to call a family friend (Will) to jumpstart her social life, and get out of the house a bit...Will was best friends with Ziggy's older brother in college, and interned for her father after graduation. They've known each other for twelve years, so there's a good deal of history between them. Ziggy has oscillated between a little sister figure and a complete non-entity in Will's memory… Little Ziggy, however, had placed Will on a pubescent pedestal… to her, Will was the epitome of sex.One might assume that Hanna was presented as naive and virginal in her quest to claim her sexuality. However, that was not the case. She was presented as incredibly intelligent - merely curious and a bit awkward because she doesn't censor her thoughts or feelings. She is driven to succeed in all things, so it wasmasteryof sexuality that she was looking for. Hanna was treating it like everything else in her life - If she's taught by experts in the field & spends enough time studying the issue, she will become proficient.And sure, Will is a Player, but he's alovable playerin the process of reforming himself. He takes the opportunity to teach Ziggy the dating ropes, and hold her hand (um… quite literally at times) as she embraces her inner bombshell. I love that we had the chance to see the moment where Will had to analyze his behavior toward his casual female companions… When he runs into Dylan, the college boy Ziggy has gone out with a few times, and realizes what the previous women in his life must have felt like.Had they ever run into each other on the street, and how did that make them feel?Brilliant.The story was well crafted in its progression. The growing sexual tension between the two main characters was great - the playful flirting was especially enjoyable. I mention this because it is an often overlooked element in the Modern Romance genre, where the characters often jump into bed immediately andthentry to sort out their emotions…That said, the sex was off-the-charts hot (in keeping with the previous panty-melting books in the series)… Will instructing Hanna techniques for pleasure was sensual rather than controlling. His desire to help Hanna explore her sexuality in a safe environment - with a person who cares for her welfare - allows Will to consider his previous sexual relationships to date.The humor really made this book - the interaction between Ziggy and Will made the progression of their relationship believable. And of course, the rest of the Beautiful Bastard Gang was there to watch Will finally fall head-over-heels for a girl.“Ben,” Max said, leaning back in his chair with a giant grin. “It’s finally happened.”I groaned, resting my head on my hand.“You got your period?” Bennett asked. “Congratulations.”“No, you twat,” Max said, laughing. “I’m talking about Will. He’s gone arse over tits for a girl.”...“Fantastic! Does he look miserable?”The Official The Rules learned in Beautiful Player:Throughout the book, Will creates a list of "rules" for dating, heres the whole list…1. Don’t ever call someone before the sun is up.2. Don’t ever discuss hymen regeneration over lunch. Or . . . like, ever.3. You need to be at least borderline competent in the art of sexting.4. You can only use the wordgoodso many times in a conversation before it becomes disingenuous. Find better adjectives to describe your state of mind post-dates.5. Don’t freak out and walk away from someonein your own house.6. Things are only weird if you let them be.7. There isno ruleabout having unprotected sex twice in a day.8. There aren’t any other lovers.9. Even after only four months, it's incredibly good form to think of someone as yourforever.Clauses to the Official Rules:1. You can make an exception for nearly any rule-breaking while wearing a thin tank top & pajama pants.2. You absolutely cannot break rule eight, because"Fuck that. Fuck that noise.”Some of My Favorite MomentsGood sweet baby Jesus, I wanted to bang the smirk off this man.I held up my hands. “It’s a nice thought, you guys. But Ziggy really isn’t my type.”“What’s your type? Walks? Has a pussy?” Max asked.She was pretty—actually, she was beautiful—but she wasn’t poised or contained. She was silly, and confident, and so much her own person it almost made the rest of the world seem monochromatic. I had no idea if she even took herself seriously, but she certainly didn’t expect me to.“See, the problem with boobs is if you have big ones, you can never look thin. You get these burns on your shoulders from bra straps, and your back hurts. And unless you’re using them for their intended purpose, they’re always in the way.”“In the way ofwhat? My hands? My face? Don’t you blaspheme in here.” He looked up to the sky. “She didn’t mean it, Lord. Promise.”Ignoring him, I said, “That’s why I had a reduction when I was twenty-one,” which is when his expression morphed into one of horror.You’d have thought I told him I made an amazing stew from tiny babies and puppy tongues.“Why on earth would you do that? That’s like God giving you a beautiful gift and you kicking him in the nuts.”I laughed. “God? I thought you were agnostic, Professor.”“I am. But if I could motorboat perfect tits like yours I might be able to find Jesus.”I felt my blush warm my cheeks. “Because Jesus totally lives in my cleavage?”“Her boobs were . . .wow. She clearly knows Jesus.”Will completely cracked up and wrapped his arm around my shoulders. “Let’s just say finding religion cost her a lot of money.”“I like it when you ask me to come!” he called after me. “I can’t wait to come tonight, Ziggy! Should I come around eight? Or do you want me to come around ten? Maybe I’ll come both times?”It had been forever since I’d felt like I wanted to take over someone’s sexual history, completely overwrite it with my hands and dick and mouth.“I don’t think I’ve ever wanted someone so much I would beg for it. A cookie? Yes. A cock? No.”I’d never had a lot of female friends—and I’d definitely never had one like Chloe Mills—but even I was smart enough to be a little afraid of her. I got the distinct impression that evenBennettwas a little afraid of her.“So it’s going to be a grad schoolrager? Will they have kegs and Fritos?”“Dr. Sumner,” she sighed. “Don’t be a snob.”“I’m not being a snob,” I said. “I’m being a man in his early thirties who finished grad school years ago and considers it a wild night when he goads Max into spending over a thousand dollars on a bottle of scotch.”Dylan looked like every other Columbia student in the place: dressed down to the point he was toeing the line between pajama-clad and hobo.“But when he kissed me? I didn’t feel lost in him the way I get lost in you.”I’d always understood why women wanted Will in the first place. He wasn’t beautiful in the same way Bennett was, and he wasn’t tender like Max. He was visceral and imperfect, dark andknowing. He gave the sense that he looked at a woman and in an instant read every need she had.I requested we move our regular group lunch from Tuesday to Monday on the basis that I’d lost my balls and my mind, and no one argued. It seemed that I’d reached a level of moony lovesickness that made giving me shit a lot less fun for my friends.“You are such a pervert, smiling at my scraped knees.”“You’resuch a pervert, knowing why I’m smiling.”“You like the idea of getting my knees all scraped up?” she asked with a growing smile of her own.“I’m sorry,” I said, shaking my head with absolute insincerity. “Ireallydo.”“I like when you throw me around a little, have your way with me. I like when you act like my body is yours.”Will was predatory and seductive every minute of the day; but in the morning, he should beillegal.Will sat up beneath me, sucking on my neck before moving his mouth to the shell of my ear. “I need to fuck you.”I let my head fall back. “Didn’t you do that last night?”“That washoursago.”Of course I’d been attracted to women before. But there was something more with Hanna, some chemistry in our blood, something between us that snapped and crackled, that made me always want just a little more than I should take. She offered her friendship, I wanted her body. She offered her body, I wanted to hijack her thoughts. She offered her thoughts, I wanted her heart.“I know it’s crazy and I know it’s stupid. But God, that’s how you make me feel.”“Don’t break me, okay?”Even in the darkness I could see his brows pull together. “You said that before. Why do you think I would break you? Do you think I evencould?”His voice rumbled low and encouraging in my ear, telling me how good I felt, how close he was, how he needed this so much he felt like he worked every day just to get back to me. He told me being with me felt like being home.Fuck. I already missed Hanna, and being with my two closest friends who were so . . .situatedmade it hard. It wasn’t that I felt I needed to catch up to some milestone of theirs; I simply wanted that comfort of knowing I could go out with my friends for an evening and still come home toher.My Other Reviews in the Beautiful Bastard Series:1. -Beautiful Bastard-My Review1.5 -Beautiful Bitch-My Review2. -Beautiful Stranger-My Review2.5 -Beautiful Bombshell-My Review3. -Beautiful Player- YOU'RE READING IT3.5 -Beautiful Beginning-My Review