Overall Opinion:This is an ARC copy.I have never done an ARC before, except for one time when an author reached out to me and asked. It turned into a weird experience. But even before that, I told myself never to do an ARC because sometimes I can be very critical and I don't want to insult the author. But I was so desperate and impatient to read this book, I broke my own rule.Overall, I gave this book a 4 stars! I looooooved it. I read it twice already. Please give it a try. You won't be disappointed!I started reading Maya Alden’s books last year. To be honest, I wasn't a fan of her earlier works because I felt the heroes were too much of an asshole to be redeemed and the heroines were too much of a doormat. And also, there were some books (like one or two) where the hero continued to see other people after he had been with the heroine. But gradually, I continued to read her books and it got better and better. My perspectives on those books also changed as I understand the author more. I consider her one of my go-to and favorite authors.I don't agree with or like everything in her books, but her books are so enjoyable to read, it is especially because of the angst. I love how angsty they are, especially this one. She knows how to build the angst and bring it to a head. You can feel the angst and heartache that the main characters feel. The grovel is also satisfying and believable. She listens to her readers and what they want. Literally, she is active on FB and asks questions.For my safety gang, a few of this author's books, including this one, has a plot where the hero has been with the heroine’s sister first and even has the heroine heard or seen the hero and sister being intimate once. It is always before the hero was with the heroine. That might be a turn-off for you, but in this book, it's really minor. The sister is not an evil villain.Also, for those bothered by the pollyanna/doormat type heroines, the author has a few books with that. I was once bothered by it too, but the doormat character is very upfront about that and it is part of making the angst so good. It also doesn't last long. The heroines find their backbones soon.Author:Maya AldenYear Pub/Re Pub:2024Page Length:300Genre:contemporary romanceStandalone/Cliffhanger:No Cliffhanger/ part of a series, but StandaloneEpilogue Included:YesAny Trigger Warning:Yes,for suicide attempt and past child sex abuse.Recommend Reading:YES!!!!Will I Re-read This Book:Yes.Would I Read More Books by this Author:Yes and I have already.Technical/Editing Quality:A handful of grammar errors.Writing/Content Quality:Well written. One of the main characters is Bengali. The author is knowledgeable regarding the food, language, and culture surrounding it. Most of the author's books are interracial romance where one of the main characters, usually the heroine, is not white. I think because the author is not white herself, the non-white characters feel authentic and I feel immersed in the book. The dialogue felt real and human.Blurb:Struggling financially with a custody fight hanging over her head, the heroine turns to the hero for help in caring for her 2 and a half year old niece. A daughter she thought he rejected, but he actually never knew about. The story is about two people coming together to care for a child while external and internal forces tear them apart.Book Cover:I love the covers for the entire series. Each book is mono-colored.Favorite Line:"See, I always cared about people. I was there for Asha, for Pari…I've always been there for others, but no one has been there for me. I've been trying to hold on to people by doing everything for them because I thought, if I did, if I loved hard enough, I would matter to someone. But that was a mistake.”Point Of View (POV):Dual POV.Overall Pace of Story:The book was long, but I wish it was longer. The pacing was right, but sometimes I wished the author spent longer on certain scenes, like it was more telling than showing.Instalove:Kind of. They are both physically attracted to each other, but keep it to themselves.H /h Relationship Info:Although there is instant attraction, since they are co-parenting a child together, it takes them a while to acknowledge the attraction. When they finally do sleep together, it's very awkward because they don’t address what their relationship is.Age:34 year old Hero and 22 year old Heroine.Hero:Hero is Beau Bodine. The hero makes appearances in the other books in the series and he was likable. Hero is a manwhore type single guy who is not interested in a relationship. He has been to sex clubs and done threesomes and foursomes (“even foursomes, though crossing swords was not my thing…”). But once he meets the heroine, he doesn’t want anyone else. He is a billionaire from a well-known, old money Savannah, Georgia family whose father was a philanderer. But has his own billion dollar tech company.Hero Description:He is described as having the charming Bodine family blue eyes. A handsome, tall, tech geek with a southern accent.Hero Likability Rating:4 out of 5 stars. I liked him in the previous books, he was a good son to his mother and good brother and friend. He was a manho, but he was honest about not being interested in having children or being in a relationship. I did not like that he was quick to believe the heroine's parents because of some documents. He falls instantly in love with his daughter, the first time he ever fell in love according to him.Book Boyfriend Material/OTT Alpha:I would say yes!Heroine:: Heroine is Mira Sen. When I heard Beau's book was coming out, I was so afraid that he was going to get a basic girl heroine, but Mira is perfect! She is a heroine with a tragic and painful past and because of it, she is guarded and insecure. She doesn't think she's good enough and her lack of education makes her feel less than. She is very protective of her niece, Pari, and sees her as her daughter. She is so void of love that she overcompensates. She is a carer who took care of her older sister, Asha, as she was dying while taking care of her niece. Even though she struggles financially, she ensures Pari has nice outfits and healthy food. Her dream and passion is to be a chef and was accepted to a prestigious school, but had to decline to care for her sister and niece. My heart also breaks for her deceased sister, Asha. What the sisters went through in their childhood was tragic and it sucks that Asha died and didn't get to live a full life. Her adulthood was also marred by what happened in their childhood.Heroine Description:Milk chocolate skin, dark, lush, silky hair. Fragile looking, beautiful woman. Dark circles underneath her eyes.Heroine Likability Rating:I love Mira! I give her a million stars out of 5. She is a fighter, even as a child. Throughout the book, you can literally feel how emotionally and mentally drained she is, yet she continues to fight. Her heartbreak is one that will break your heart. She is such an endearing character that you can relate to and will root for.Important Secondary Characters:Pari: Asha and Beau's daughterAsha Sen: Mira's deceased older sisterDonna: Beau's motherRoxy: Beau's long-time House ManagerTrevor and Katya: Beau's younger brother and Sister-in-lawNova and Anson: Beau's newly discovered half-sister and fiance/husband (they have their own book)Dr. Fallon: Beau’s former fling and wannabe OWNina Davenport: Beau's friend and owner of Savannah Lace. Also Mira's boss.Ani and Seema Sen: Asha and Mira's evil ass parentsSuchitra Pillai: Asha and Mira's lawyerFriends from the other booksBrief Summary of the Storyline:This book is part of a series (all can be read as a standalone) centered on Savannah Lace, a woman-owned, all-women design and architecture firm in Savannah, Georgia, where old and new money along with some and no money intermingle. Characters from the other books appear, but it's not overbearing that you struggle to know who is who.The young Bengali heroine has been taking care of her 2 and half year old niece since prior to the death of her older sister in Atlanta. Her sister was diagnosed with peripartum cardiomyopathy, a rare type of heart failure during her last trimester of pregnancy. Since then, she has been caring for her ill sister. After the baby was born, she cared for both until sister passed away 6 months ago at the start of the book. While her sister left an apartment and money for the heroine and niece, their rich estranged parents ensured she couldn't legally use it and has been trying to get custody of their granddaughter. Struggling financially and needing help with the custody fight, she turns to the billionaire hero in Savannah for help. Her sister lied that the hero knew of the pregnancy and wanted nothing to do with the baby. However, he never knew of the pregnancy or baby. The hero immediately recognizes the child as his from her eyes which are like his.The first part of the book is the heroine struggling to fit into her niece's new life as most of the hero's friends and family are hostile towards her, they want her gone. She thinks her time with her niece whom she sees as a daughter is coming to an end. There are really angsty scenes including an OW wannabe/use-to-be that tries to paint her as an unfit mother. Meanwhile, the hero struggles to contain his attraction to her. His family's hostility towards her causes him to doubt her intentions. The heroine is very guarded and does not share the reason why she does not want her parents anywhere near her niece which further causes doubt with the hero. The introduction of her estranged parents turns everything upside down.The second part of the book is full of spoilers and trigger warnings. By this point, the hero and heroine have been sleeping together. The heroine is interviewing for a job in Savannah Lace. Meanwhile, the hero’s mother invites the heroine's parents to her home.They lie and manipulate the hero and his mother, telling stories of the heroine as a lazy, drop out, party girl who is unfit to be the little girl's guardian. They lied that the sister did not give her custody, that she manipulated her dying sister and painted her as a gold digger. They provided a fake CPS (child protective service) report that said she abused her niece.Believing her parents, the hero kicks the heroine out, very cruelly too, putting her few belongings in a trash bag. She begs on her knees and promises to never face him again if he never leaves the niece with her parents. She leaves with the little money and things she has in her beat up car.After spending her last remaining money in a motel and running out of gas, she ends up in a shopping center parking lot. She is at her breaking point. She couldn't keep her promise to her sister to protect their little girl, she is a broken person full of insecurities and pain because of what happened in her past. She finds her sister's Ambien medication and slowly takes the pill one by one, ready to end it all.Meanwhile, the hero is still angry and looking for answers. His long-time housekeeper and half-sister (a heroine in a book in this series) are the only two who believe the heroine is innocent. The hero gets into contact with the CPS caseworker where he tells the hero what actually happened. The heroine’s parents have been continuously reporting her to CPS, but CPS have concluded she is fit to be the guardian, while her parents are not. He advises the hero to talk to the heroine's sister's lawyer.The lawyer is the heroine's sister's friend and lawyer. She also represents the heroine. It was under her advisement that the heroine seek out the hero. The lawyer tells the hero that the heroine’s sister made a deathbed confession to the lawyer. She was sexually abused by their father from 8 to 14 years old. The heroine was five years younger. It appears the heroine may have been abused at a younger age and for a longer time.The sister tried telling their mother, but she blamed her, as an 8 year old, for being a jezebel. so she internalized everything believing nobody will believe them, while the heroine fought hard to tell the truth only for people including the caseworker not to believe her. Their mother knew and would physically beat them if they told. The sister remained quiet in order to slowly escape their parents. After they paid for her college and graduated, that’s when she cut off contact. The heroine eventually ran away and moved in with her sister. But unlike her sister, she didn't keep quiet so she was constantly verbally and physically abused by both parents leading to her insecurities and low self-esteem. Their father is an influential, rich lawyer. Their parents lied about her character to their Indian/Bengali community and family and friends so they did not believe her and ostracized her. The parents called her a drop out, but she had to drop out of a prestigious culinary school at 19 because she had to take care of her dying sister and a baby. The sisters only had each other and vowed their parents would never touch their little girl.I don't blame the sister for not telling the hero. Because of the abuse, she did not have a healthy view of men. This scene explains how the two handled the effects of their abuse: “I'd learned early on that I could get clingy. My first boyfriend after I left my parents' home…told me when he ended it, ‘It's like you've been starved for attention, and you kind of suck a relationship dry. I just wanted us to have fun. I'm not ready for commitment. You come across as desperate, Mira.’ When I told Asha about it, she'd pointed out that I was starved for attention, and I'd fallen for the first boy who'd given me some. ‘Happened to me, too—wanted to marry and make babies with the first guy I fucked. But, you know what, Mira? It's better to sleep around and get the physical release than to get your emotions entangled. In any case, I don't think a man would stay with someone like us if they knew our truth—and how horrible would it be to be in a relationship where you can't speak your truth? Better to fuck and forget, Mira.’”Once the truth is out, the hero is full of guilt. Meanwhile, the heroine was found by a cop and survives her suicide attempt. She is placed in the psych ward and has to undergo therapy. The hero is secretly paying for her care. The heroine is now a broken shell of herself and no longer interacts socially. She no longer thinks she is good enough for her niece. The rest of the book is the hero's grovel and trying to get the heroine to come out of her shell and the heroine building back her confidence and learning to live on her own and love herself.Pros/What I Liked:1. The angst in this story is sooooo good. Her angst in the other books in this series are great too.2. Pari’s name: Beau shuts down his mother and OW's microaggression towards Pari's non-western name.3. I want to work in Savannah Lace and the author makes you want to live in Savannah.4. There was comeuppance for the heroine's evil parents, but there was something that wasn't clear. The hero said he was going to take away their fortune along with jailing her father, but in the end, all we heard was that the father went to prison, but no additional detail of how long or what the backlash from their community was like. Also, her mother left for India, but it didn't say if she still had her wealth. I wish we had known these details. I love a good, thorough comeuppance, especially for evil people.Cons/What I Didn't Liked:1. Telling instead of showing: there were some scenes I wished the author showed instead of telling. The book was already 300 pages so I understand that the author perhaps needed to cut down.2. I didn't understand how the heroine's parents were able to ensure that the heroine and daughter could not access her sister’s house and money if it was bequeathed to her and daughter.Angst/Sadness level:Box of tissues not needed. I cried, but it was not a complete tear-jerker.Push/Pull:Both push in the beginning because they are co-parenting. But then the hero does the pulling while the heroine pushes after the hero breaks her heart.Heat level:I think there were only two intimate scenes, but I didn’t mind because I was more focused on the plot.Descriptive sex:Yes between hero and heroine.OW (Other Woman)/OM (Other Man) drama:Yes, OW drama.Did OW/OM/Ex Ruin the Book For You:No, it made the angst better.Sex scene with OW or OM:No.M/F-M/M-M/M/F-etc:M/FBirth Control/Condoms:Hero always wore protection, but the first time with the heroine was bare. They talked about having been tested and the heroine has IUD.Cheating Before/During/Outside H/h relationship:No.Grovel Rating:4 out of 5. I am trying to see how much more the hero could grovel, but I couldn't think of anything else he could do to grovel.Love Triangle:No.Separation:Yes, after the trigger warning, they are separated for months.Virgin/Celibate/Manwhore:This involves reading the trigger warning, but the heroine had at least one boyfriend before the hero. So no virgins. Celibate for both during separation.Contains Children:Yes And she is adorable. Favorite line is “Miramashi” which means Aunt Mira.Contains Flashback:Slightly.Possible Pet Peeves/Triggers:No pet peeves, trigger posted in the top.Plot Holes:Not one I noticed.HEA/HFN/etc Ending:HEA.Closure/Epilogue:Yes with extra epilogue with email sign up.Safety:I mentioned it in the beginning. The hero used to be manho and was with the older sister first hence the daughter. However, he was never in a relationship. He met the sister in a tech conference and was with her a few times for a few weeks. The sister was also not looking for a relationship so there weren't any feelings involved. The heroine did accidentally walk in on them having sex in the sister's kitchen and she saw his ass.