I enjoyed theBurnand got caught in theBlazeI have beenDYINGfor the next instalment of theDark In Youseries. I stalked and waited, stalked a little more and then FINALLY the word came out thatBlazehad a release date. See, I read and lovedBurn…I mean really, REALLYLOVEDBurn. So, knowing that it was going to be a series I had a deep hope that this would be one of those series thatSuzanne Wrightwrote 10 years ago and has been hesitant to release it to the world. No such luck. We actually have to wait patiently for her to create another masterpiece. Well, paranormal lovers, the wait is over.Blazeis upon us and it is asEPICas I hoped it would be.We are back visiting Knox and Harper’s world. It is always very nice of an author to give me an opportunity to slot Mr Gandy as the hero. Tall, dark and sexy…who else would I be thinking of? Luckily, hubby has light brown hair so he’s not too upset that I HAVE to find someone else to picture (wink, wink). Anyways, so Mr Gandy…I mean Knox and Harper are settling into married life and it’s not all plain sailing.I think the best way for me to explain why I lovedBlazeso much, is to break it down a bit. Knox is super possessive and totally in love with Harper. He tells her, shows her and growls at anyone who makes his mate uncomfortable. Knox struggles to not take over her life. It’s what he’s used to doing and he has enough power to make his wishes heard and adhered to. He wants to protect her from all the bad stuff, but he knows that Harper is an independent woman trying to get used to someone who cares about her. Knox also knows that the independence and confidence that he struggles with, is one of the main reasons why he was attracted and fell in love with her.Now, Harper…wow, this chick is AWESOME!! My absolute favourite part of her character was her confidence in dealing with people who don’t think she’s good enough for Knox. She has faith in him and never doubts his devotion. I’ll just step in here and say that I would absolutely LOVE to be that confident. I know that I’m hubby’s “love of his life”, but I alsothinkthat every other woman wants him too. Hubby laughs at me all the time about it. He thinks I look at him with rose coloured glasses. BUT…he is perfect...for me. I still want her confidence. I loved that Harper would smirk, snigger and snort at the women who say that Knox won’t keep her long. I hated that they felt it was OK to look down at her because she was raised by imps and a Wallis to boot. Sometimes, you could tell that the comments hurt, but she kept her head up, looked them straight in the eye and told them she didn’t care what they thought.Now, one of the major reasons I love this series is that the additional characters are as lovable as the main characters. Jolene, Harper’s Grandmother and Lou, Lucifer (the devil), still play a part but not as big. InBlazewe get to know the gang from Harper’s tattoo parlour and the sentinels a bit better. I would love it if they get their own stories.The sexy times were HOT!! Suzanne Wright definitely knows how to give you intimate scenes that show the connection between the characters. The little touches outside of the bedroom show that their need for each other is not based solely on sex. Affection is shown by the thoughtful gestures and concerns they have for each others safety.To be honest, about halfway through the book I was wondering if there was going to be any noteworthy action. I’m kind of used to the heart pumping, nail biting scenes where lives are on the line and you’re questioning who to trust. The storyline does have the mystery and intrigue bubbling along from the beginning but it doesn’t really start to get gripping until the last third of the book.I mentioned it above, but we do have the pesky exes (Knox's) showing their faces AGAIN!! Knox wants to “deal” with them, but Harper needs to earn the respect of the lair and asks him to “stand down”. It was kind of funny knowing that it was against the grain for him to do that. Harper again shows her strength and confidence in how she deals with “The Dolphin” and the other snooty leg-spreaders.Big call, but I’m going to say that THIS is my favourite paranormal series. I originally was hesitant about readingBurnbecause demons didn’t appeal to me. The devotion Knox and Harper show to each other, additional characters and intriguing plots grab my attention and keep it easily. After reading both of theDark in Youbooks, I’ve decided I want a bit ofDark in metoo.To buyBlazefrom Amazon -http://amzn.to/2bHk6iBI’m an Aussie chick who loves to read and review romance, drink coffee, be aStyle Setterand stalk David Gandy. To see more of my reviews, fashion, food and pervathons -