This was my first - and most likely last - experience with a reverse harem story.Before I clarify the above, I have to give credit to the writer. These books were very well-written. The plot, although unlikely, wasn't terribly unrealistic and the drama and angst wasn't too OTT - even for YA. Being YA, there was also very little sex involved to get in the way of the plot, which I appreciated so much. I'm so bored with all the fuck fests out there and the utter lack of ability in creating an actual plot. Any time I read a book that doesn't rely on steam to move the story along, it's refreshing. You don't get a lot of that these daysI only sampled the first of this series - Savage Royals - out of curiosity, never intending to actually read it. Never imagining I would WANT to give it a real go. To my surprise, I found it compulsively readable and Ms. Rose was able to sustain my interest through all three books.In addition, the external dialogue was excellent, completely natural. The internal dialogue didn't dominate the story and so there was no issue with telling rather than showing the story. The descriptions needed to lay out scenes were just right. Seriously, the story flowed so easily and you don't realise just how abysmal most of the writing is out there these days until you stumble into a book that is written with talent and skill. Ms. Rose earns the title of 'author,' rather than being merely a writer.And her character development was seriously on point. With the exception of one chapter, the entire series was narrated in the heroine's POV and reminded me why I love when a writer can actually pull it off. It's no secret that I prefer single POV, but many writers today lack the ability to add dimension to the character whose perspective isn't included. Ms. Rose not only achieved it with one hero, she did so with 4. Each of the four boys had a distinct appearance and personality and it was difficult to choose the one I liked best.Which, I understand, is the goal of a successfully executed reverse-harem scenario.Which brings me to my rating and why I won't be embracing this trope. It's simple, really. In my mind, a love story has one heroine and one hero, not four. And even though I liked Mason, Cole, Elijah and Finn, in the end I needed Talia to choose only one of them. The HFN nicely wrapped up the story and was even kind of cute. But while that idea might do it for some, it is soooo not my thing.I liked the story and would recommend it to anyone who enjoys this trope. I would probably read more of Ms. Rose's work because the girl's got serious skills, but I won't because she doesn't write the types of stories I prefer.So, 2.5 stars.