3.5 ⭐I'm conflicted about this book, but that's my problem. 😅Safety warnings:- Violence- Domestic abuse- Torture- Gruesome death- No owd- Cheating (Ravi is married up to 88% of the book)- Forbidden romance- Bodyguard romance- Age gap (24/37)- Death of a loved one (Alessandro's wife)Alessandro/Az (37) is on the revenge path against the guy responsible for his wife's death. He has been planning this for the last 8 years, and he'll never stop until that guy dies in a slow and painful way.He loved his wife, but it was something that gradually happened. They both grew up in the foster care system and have been together since they were 17. They started as friends that turned into something deeper over the years. They were together for more than a decade, but I don't think the love he had for her was all deep and consuming.But one day some drunk guy hit his wife and ran from the scene, and the guy's father did everything to clean up that accident and for his son not to be punished. He was heartbroken and made a vow to get revenge on those responsible for killing his wife.Since his wife died, he has never been with a woman. He had a one-track mind, and his sole purpose was to finally get revenge by killing Rocco and Rocco's father.---------Ravenna/Ravi (24) is a Capo's daughter, but since her father died, they have been struggling a lot. One day, her younger brother decided to play poker with Rocco, and he lost, and she was taken as payment instead. She married him, and he has been abusing her (physically, mentally, and sexually) ever since. She tried to fight him at the beginning, but the abusive asshole only enjoyed it even more.The asshole is also a jealous fucker, and he killed his previous three guards because he thinks they look at her in a different way. But then he hired Az to be his wife's bodyguard, thinking he's gay thanks to the rumors surrounding him that he's not interested in women.---------Az and Ravi met, but he hates her, or rather, what she represents and her connection with Rocco, but he cannot stop himself from being intrigued by her. Since the first time he saw her, he couldn't get her out of his head. That's not the case with Ravi; she's intrigued too, but she's more afraid for his safety because, again, her asshole husband is a jealous prick and doesn't have any problem killing her previous bodyguards. So she tried to be professional and cold with him at the beginning.But then, with all the forced proximity and him being with her all day, the potential relationship buildup slowly happened. The mutual attraction got more intense with each passing day, as did the sexual tension. Until one day, everything snaps, and they both give in.This is a slow-burn romance, and nothing happened between them until 63% of the book. After that, Az kept his distance, and he reminded himself that she shouldn't mean anything to him because she's part of his plan. It was annoying and frustrating to be reminded that all of his efforts are for his wife and that he would see to it that his revenge would be exact. His hot and cold treatment with Ravi is maddening too; one minute he wanted her to be his, then another hot minute he's pushing her away. Seriously, make up your mind, dude!When Alessandro finally told Ravenna about what happened to his wife and his actual plans, she didn't get afraid of him but rather felt sad for what he went through. She also realized that he loved his wife so deeply that it sustained him for the last eight years as he plotted his revenge. According to her POV, she can't handle being a consolation prize, but then she loves him and is hoping one day for him to eventually feel the same way about her. And I was like, are you for real? Why would you even settle for something like that?What annoyed me the most is that she asked him, not once but twice, mind you, to choose her over his original plan, but both times he didn't do so. His revenge outweighs everything; even Ravi and I just can't get with that.But when she finally set him free, another group of enemies came and rained gunshots at the event she was attending. That's when he only realized how much he loved her, and he can't even bear to think about losing her. After that sh*t show, he dropped the love bomb on her, and she accepted him so quickly. And I really want to shake her so hard, because a few minutes before that shootout, he rejected her for the second time when she asked him to "run away together." And this realization only sinks into Az for about 85% of the book. So for me, it seems that the majority of the story is all about him executing his revenge plan and that, in the back of his mind, it was all for his dead wife.I know that they fall in love, and what he feels for her is something he never felt with his wife. But it still didn't sit well with me how much he can't let go of his revenge or the fact that he didn't choose Ravi for the huge part of the book. Tbh, I'm so conflicted too, because I also want to give justice to the wife, but she's been long gone and Ravi's here, breathing, living, and loving him unconditionally. But he's so stuck in that payback, and he's letting her slip from his fingers.On the positive side, he was very protective of Ravi. He shot her husband's hand when he saw the bruises on her neck. He also killed a guard who knew that Rocco was abusing Ravi but didn't do anything. He also scares away all the guys who are trying to talk to her or get close to her. And how he also protects her mother and brother. Also, their scenes together are hot, and though what they did was cheating, it is still hot. I can't deny that.Overall, I think this is still a good book. Probably a 3 or 4 ⭐ but the retribution for the dead wife isn't just working for me. I tried, but the last 15% of the story isn't enough to make up for the majority of the book. Though this didn't work for me, other readers might find this up their alley.