4⭐️‘Broken Wings’ is book one in the co-authored series Dark Legacy written by Jaymin Eve and Tate James. I love both these authors so I couldn’t go past the opportunity to read something that they wrote together.Going in I had no idea what was to be expected from this book, the synopsis intrigued me. I was not disappointed! I even got my husband to listen to the audiobook, which he doesn’t listen to books that ain’t MC themed. (He enjoyed it.)Riley recently lost her parents in a car accident, now her birth parents want her back. Having no choice but to go with her birth mum, Riley is put in the middle of a world she does not fit in, surrounded by spoilt, rich, egotistical, pretentious males. Sebastian (Beck), Dylan, Jasper and Evan are the Delta boys, the ones that all the males want to be and the guys all the girls want to be with. The Delta boys rule Ducis Academy and everyone in the town. But there is much more behind the Delta boys and Riley is going to find out the hard way, and the real reason behind her being brought to the Deboise Estate.I really enjoyed reading about Riley and the Delta boys. Riley is a strong kicka** chick that is willing to stand up for herself and the ones she calls family. She doesn’t obey just because she is female and the males tell her to do something. The Delta boys are each unique and wonderful characters, each bring something different to the groups dynamic. Although Riley’s life was turned upside down after her parents crash, she makes new friends in the town and finds her way quickly in the new world she is in.Now it’s hard to praise or comment on how wonderful this book is without giving away spoilers so I’m only going to say, get this book and read it for yourself and see what I’m talking about. But FYI this is a big cliffhanger so make sure to have book two ready to go.4⭐️‘Broken Trust’ is book two in the co-authored series Dark Legacy written by Jaymin Eve and Tate James.‘Broken Trust’ continues on from book one ‘Broken Wings’ ends. Now you’ve read book one and you know that Riley has been betrayed/set up, she was “blackmailed” into killing someone to save her bf Dante. If you haven’t read ‘Broken Wings’ stop reading this review right now, close this page and look it up and read it, right NOW!Riley has had her life flipped upside down, threatened, almost killed several times, thrown into a world she doesn’t understand. Just when she started to feel like a part of the Delta group she is pushed into something she wants nothing to do. Now betrayed by the Delta guys Dylan, Jasper, Evan and ‘boyfriend’ Beck, Riley needs to protect her bf Dante and save his life.I enjoyed reading this book much more then book one ‘Broken Wings’, I especially loved Beck’s povs. But I did find that Riley had lost some of her bada** chick mojo that she had in ‘BW’. I found her to be contradicting herself, whiny, and a bit of a hypocrite, but towards the 50% mark she was back to being the Riley I enjoyed reading. The guys were great as usual, there overly protectiveness was cute to see. I started to dislike and distrust Dante in ‘BW’ but I feel there is more to his story than what this duo authors have shared so far. Also Deb*tch must meet her end soon. The twist, turns and revelations had me glued to the pages.Can’t wait to get into ‘Broken Legacy’. Well done ladies, really enjoying this series.4⭐️‘Broken Legacy’ is book three in the co-authored series Dark Legacy written by Jaymin Eve and Tate James. Books one ‘Broken Wings’ and book two ‘Broken Trust’ must be read prior to this one.Riley must now figure out how to help get the charges against Dante dropped, while mending her relationship with the Delta guys. This is no easy task especially when there is a stalker out to get her. Riley along with Beck, Jasper, Dylan and Evan need to get evidence that the five heads of the Delta group are corrupt, prove that Dante is being set up and is innocent, and figure out who is sending threatening letters to Riley. Secrets will be revealed.All I can say is that I was so freaking glad that this series was completed prior to me attempting to read it, cause these cliffhangers would have been the end of me. I could barely hold out for a day before I could read the next, I can image how I would have made it having to wait for the next book. These authors have done a fabulous job with this series, the characters are relatable, and phenomenal to read, watching the bond/connections that have developed and flourish between each and every character was fantastic. The storyline was intriguing, fast paced, engaging, and highly addictive. I’m a little said that it has come to an end.Riley’s character has grown so much since ‘BW’ being thrown into a world she knew nothing about she has adjusted and come out stronger and smarter. Along with the help from the Delta guys, Beck, Dylan, Jasper and Evan, also Eddy needs a huge mention, she is the BFF every girl needs in their corner.Well done ladies!!!The bonus scene at the end after three years was so beautiful. To see how life has been for these characters after all the trouble, drama and tragedy they have all experienced. Riley and Beck are still fantastic together. But to see that Beck has more life in him, the whole smiling, laughing and joking was refreshing, he wasn’t so moody and tightly wound with the less stress in his life. Butterfly really did help him get a life after all.