TITLE:Dirty Ugly ToyAUTHOR:K. WebsterGENRE:Contemporary Romance, Semi dark story-lineRELEASE DATE:ReleasedMY RATING:Here's why I gave this 5 stars, it's a book where you have to step outside your comfort zone, outside of your head, some won't like this, but others like me who are sick and twisted will love it, it goes against everything you believe in, right vs wrong, it's a book where you have to stop thinking and just feel, feel the words, the characters, especially where it comes to him, he's not a monster, he's a product of his childhood and it takes her to break down all his walls and that is why I loved this..She completed broken parts of me,Ohhhhh I should probably say that this is the first time reading anything by this author..Sooooo I really have no idea what I'm going to be walking into..★ DISCLAIMER: ★Dirty Ugly Toy is a novel that blurs the lines of right and wrong, deals with abuse, contains dubious consent, and adult subject matter. If you are sensitive to violent sexual situations, the book may not be suitable for you. Some parts of this book are not easy to read and are not intended for everyone. However, those that keep an open mind and stick with it will not be disappointed.Twenty toysTwenty locks of hairTwenty times I've indulged in my greatest fantasies.This pretty much jumps right into the dirty ugly grit of things, he's discarding one toy that bores him and is now in the process of finding another one that he can play with..Find new toys.Play with them.Tell them goodbye.And my boys do the rest.Oh gods wtf have I one clicked and am reading?? This is f*ucked up..But for the life of me I'm stuck on this crazy journey because I need to find out wtf this book is about lolNineteen toys. Nineteen locks of hair. Nineteen times I’d indulged in my greatest fantasies.I believe the twentieth one will be extra special.And I can’t wait to make her mine.At least for a little while . . .I’m a dirty street animal. There was a day in my life when I would have been horrified to have seen such a thing. Now, all morals are thrown out the window. I don’t care about anything or anyone. Life is shitty, plain and simple.~ HERThe only reason why I one clicked this was because of the covershhhhhhit kind of grabs your attention, never really paid attention to the synopsis, my finger had a mind of its own when I let it loose on Amazon and this book is the result of that, but I shit you not, even though this is kind of sick and twisted the story just grabs you..A game of cat & mouseI’m not most women, I crave to rile you up and provoke you. I like watching the vein in your forehead pulsate when you’re pissed. I like when you tie me up and spank me and treat me like you own me.Bunny, I’m not right in the head. I want to hurt women. Sometimes I want to hurt you. I’m evil.This book is surprising on so many levels, straight away your drawn into this unorthodox story, it's unique and unlike anything I have ever read before, the authors writing style holds your attention throughout..Sins of the motherSo this is really weird but still I keep reading, he's not such a monster as I initially thought, (and guess this is where the mind f*ck comes into play) the prostitutes he picks up as his toys as he calls them are all paying the price through the sins of his mother..Bunny is different. Bunny reminds me of the cold, hungry, feisty little boy who hid in the closet all those years while Mama f*cked her johns. Bunny reminds me of me. And that changes everything.Lines become blurred.Bunny is different, this woman confuses the hell out of me and she's ruining my carefully constructed plans.Dirty Ugly Toy:This book will be nothing like any book you have previously read, this book will pushALLyour boundaries. Right from the very first page it is right up in your face. It is downright ugly, raw, gritty, dirty, and it will have you questioning all your morals, it's darkly disturbing, sickeningly twisted, erotic, and you will love - hate all that is ugly in this book..There will never be another TOY. I've lost the desire to restore. Nothing will ever be pristine and shiny in my eyes.★ Teasers used are off the authors facebook page ★