I will strive to do this review justice but be forewarned that already my biggest pet peeve with authors has already made an appearance. Dukes are never referred to as Lords. Their very title calls for them to be addressed as Your Grace, His Grace...never Lord! For an author to make such a grievous faux pas when they write historical novels shows either their lack of knowledge, their lack of research, their lack of concern for accuracy, or...worse yet...their disbelief in the readers' abilities to know the subject matter (or all the above) and that is disconcerting as well as disappointing. For it to appear that the reader is more intelligent than the author on a subject that he or she is supposed to be a master of is a serious shortage of respect from the author in regards to his or her targeted audience. That being said, this book has already lost the possibility of receiving a five-star rating...and it just might lose its place in other areas as well. There were also all the grammatical errors throughout the book that the reader had to wade through. With that being said, the only thing left to do was for this reader to press on and try to finish the story while overlooking the errors in titles.As a side note: You can't get to Gretna Green directly by ship. You would have had to stop in Newcastle Upon Tyne then traveled by carriage or horse.Now for the review:Duke of Daring, Book 1 of the Lords of Scandal series, was about His Grace Dartagnan "Tag" Darlington, the Duke of Darlington (AKA Dare), and Miss Minerva "Minnie" Chase, granddaughter of an earl and a cousin to Lady Emily Chase (in the prequel "Lords of Scandal", the author said her name was Lady Emily Winchester).Minnie's mother, a good woman with good intentions, made it known to her that she had only this one last season to find a husband on her own or she would find one for her, and it might not be to Minnie's liking who was chosen. She wanted Minnie wed so that her sister, Ada, could begin her season on the marriage mart. But like most mothers (okay okay...all mothers!) she had a tendency to meddle.Tag was one of six lords who ran a gaming hell called Den of Sins. When Minnie, her sister Ada, and their cousins learned of these lords' identities, the lords decided they needed ammunition against the ladies in order to guarantee their silence and secrecy. Five of the six men (one was already precariously engaged to one of the ladies) made a pact that they would each either secure one of the lady's words of honor to remain silent about what they each knew, or they would each marry one of them. Tag chose Minnie.As the Duke began his "surveillance" of Minnie, he unwittingly made his presence known to her mother who, upon realizing her daughter was being escorted by a duke, grasped the opportunity to introduce him to all of Minnie's relatives and, in the process, inadvertently gave the appearance that the two were, or would soon be, courting. When Minnie let him know what he had started and asked him to not ruin things for her, his thought process started to change. He was no longer only interested in protecting himself, but he was starting to worry about her future as well.There was chemistry between Tag and Minnie, most of the time simmering just below the surface. The passion had a nice flare as well, but the angst and drama were both off the charts. With all the threats, lies, rumors, and fear of scandal, the story never stopped movingIf it weren't for the issues mentioned above, this could have been both a 5-star book and added to the Keeper for the Shelves collection. However, I just couldn't grant either.