Cute Romantic ComedyFailure to Thrive By Elle Rivers✨Book Review✨Rating: 3/5“I hate to break this to you, but this isn’t going to be the last thing you mess up, Oliver. Take it from me. I mess up daily,” Riley said. “But it is what it is. We’re human, and that’s all we can be. All you can do now is learn from it and don’t do it again.”I really wanted to give this book more stars. But there are so many things in this book that made it so hard to give it more. For one there’s tons of grammatical errors, missing words, & mixing up words like putting come when it should be some.That being said I did need a cute easy read, and this book was exactly that. Once I got past the errors it was a little bit easier. So if you easily get annoyed by errors in writing be warned that this book might not be for you.I loved that it was a nanny/ single dad romance! And the characters were amazing, but my favorite was Zoe! I can’t get over how cute and smart she is! I loved how she was able to see things between Riley and Oliver before they were ready to admit it! Plus seeing her call out Oliver made me smile! And Oliver is so kind and sweet most of the time. I wished there was an epilogue that showed Oliver, Zoe, & Riley’s life together after the story ended, and if they finally got together.Tons of character development, laugh out loud moments, second hand embarrassment, and miscommunication.Blurb:A funny romance about an unlikely nanny and a single father.Riley Emerson is probably the last person anyone would expect to be a nanny. For starters, her life has fallen apart. Her boyfriend just cheated on her. She lives with her mom, and she might have a drinking problem.A funny romance about an unlikely nanny and a single father.Riley Emerson is probably the last person anyone would expect to be a nanny. For starters, her life has fallen apart. Her boyfriend just cheated on her. She lives with her mom, and she might have a drinking problem.But Oliver Brian is desperate. His daughter, Zoe, has refused to go to sleep for anyone else in four years, and his career keeps him so busy he can't always be there for her. Riley is only supposed to watch Zoe for one night. He never expects get to get Zoe to asleep on her own. When she does, he offers her a job on the spot.Riley needs the money, and Oliver needs the time for himself. It’s a perfect match ... until feelings get involved.