This was an ok reading.Hero is a hockey player, he meets the heroine at a bar and they have a ONS. She’s the daughter of two lawyers that wants their daughters to marry men of their choosing because they want to increase their clients.The heroine refuses and she becomes a nurse.After the ONS she leaves the hero’s room without waking him up.He looks for her desperately.He basically fell for her in insta love and decides he will give one year to finding her.The heroine realizes she’s pregnant and finds out he’s a famous hockey player.Sadly it’s not so easy since he has an agent that is psycho obsessed with him so she blocks the heroine and even gives her a restraining order, the heroine asks her father to help but apparently he’s not able to do it because of psycho agent.In the end they will meet thanks to some friends. She already has had his son.Psycho ow drama again, with the delusional woman who is not stopped by anything and manages to hurt the heroine, not severely though.Some op drama, her sister married a wife beater and then cheated on him with her brother in law.Another brother of the hero is divorcing his gold digging wife.The book is quick reading, low angst and completely safe. There’s insta love from his part.The hero is celibate for one year because he wants to find the love of his life, I think since he’s such a famous character he could have used the media, but he did not, and so the heroine could. Today it’s basically impossible to stay hidden. The hero though, even if he’s sometimes naive, as when he allows psycho ow agent to dictate his public image, and pretends to date a woman, is really a darling. He only ever had the heroine in his mind and in his heart and was never tempted by any other woman which I appreciate very much. He was very believable with his obsession, even when it seemed too ott, but for once it’s good to see a hero who’s not victim of his baser instincts as if he were 16.The heroine is a pleasant woman. She is no doormat and she is a bit slower to fall for him.She’s 22, very young, but she’s mature enough.Her parents change when they realize they put their daughters in danger forcing them to men who were evil and vicious. This part is a bit rushed.I can recommend it to my safety friends and to those who looks for a quick and entertaining reading.