One thing I hate more than anything in the book world are copy-cat authors.Which is what I feel this book is. A copy-cat.I shit you not, this entire story line, number of main characters, concept of characters, plot with a couple different twists is, WHAT I THINK, identical to “Den of Vipers” by K.A. Knight. Which also sucked but that’s besides the point.This is my opinion, not a fact, for the record. But boy, does this look shady as shit.Moving on. Let’s go down the very similar, repetitive I might add, check list:- Heroine traded in to pay off a debt ✔️- 4 male MC’s: the leader, the psycho, the closed off and the charming one ✔️ (Den of Vipers had a better psycho, if I’m being honest. Dude was batshit.)- Heroine who is a somewhat street smart chick but still makes dumbass decisions. You know when there’s a noise in the scary, pitch black basement and Tiffany prances down there saying “is anyone there?” type. ✔️- Treacherous pussy around the fella’s ✔️- Wah who gets to play with the heroine first, argument ✔️- Shiver me timbers, these guys are dangero-yes!Fuck me! ✔️Ending:And to top it all off, everyone, I mean EVERYONE, fucking holds hands and skips off into the sunset at the end of the book / semi cliffy.One of the MC’s send a quick text to the DA’s office, no biggie. Oh! He replied, texted me some important info. Why? Cause we got it like that. Jesus. I know it’s all fairy land here but let’s keep it somewhat realistic for depth purposes.‘We’re evil, corrupt, mentally ruined individuals but let’s act like what the author said we wouldn’t act like.’And what’s that? Knights in shining armor.1 or 2 torture scenes of rivals. Shocker. That’s usually how that ordeal works. (Mentioning this again because I was looking forward to some dark messy mess)The kicker that made me bust out laughing at the end was the fact that there is another female character in this book who “wants” one of the guys. Hates the heroine. They fight. They exchange insults. Girl says she wants the heroine to suffer and she’ll make sure that happens through the entire book.Then AT THE END, ANOTHER FEMALE GETS INVOLVED AND STIRS THE POT AND THIS PREVIOUS GIRL SO HELL BENT ON KILLING THE HEROINE TOSSES HER HATRED ASIDE IN 2 SECONDS, HELPS SAVE THE HEROINE AND SAYS:(Stevie - heroine) (Mel - Angry girl)““Hey Stevie,” Mel hesitated, “when you’re feeling up to it, would you maybe want to grab brunch or something?”She asked with a wince.“You know, let bygones be bygones or whatever.”“I’d like that, Mel,” I said, softly nudging her shoulder, “or whatever.”This is at 99%. Lmao. I can’t with this Disney channel moment. Lawd.Anyway. Whether the story line was copied or not, maybe coincidental, it was still so ridiculous and not even close to the concept of being a dark romance. Shame on you.First time reading a novel by this author and the last.Fucking no.Trigger warning:Rape, physical abuse, drug abuse, murder.- B.S.