You know, I was beginning to wonder if I needed to change some of my two star books to one star. I was thinking that I might not ever personally read a book worthy of one star, and I was messing up my scale by giving some of the more lame books I've read lately two stars instead of one.Thank you E.L. James, for proving to me there was something worth waiting for. Something that truly exemplifies the meaning of terrible.Now hold up, all you would-be defenders. I read this whole thing. I did not skip anything, I did not skim, I read every word. I bought this book with the intention of giving it the benefit of the doubt. You see, I love erotica, and I'm not ashamed to say that I both read (as you see on my 2012 books I've already read two others) and write it myself. So I was thinking to myself, oh, maybe there's a possibility that even though this is a twi-fiction rewrite, and even though everyone makes fun of it, it could still be a fun little guilty-pleasure read that I can laugh along with.NO.NO.NO.NO.This book is NOT:- erotic/sexy- funny, even ironically- endearing- full of sexual taboosThis book IS:- repetitive- plotless (well, you knew that)- painful to get through- depicting manipulative, controlling, and self-destructive as desirable- how to not write a novel- how to gain success by using other people's characters, barely changing them and then laughing all the way to the bankMost people know about the twilight matchups so I'm not going to go into too much detail, but it was actually quite sickening, how lazy she was to change ANY story details:BellaAnastasia, a clumsy girl who grew up inArizonaLas Vegas with her mother, then moved toForksVancouver, Washington where herdadstepdad lives, while her mother lives with her new husband inFloridaGeorgia. She has a younger friend namedJacobJose with a crush on her, and whose dad is friends with her dad, because they are fishing partners andpolice forcearmy buddies, and who gave her his oldtruckVW beetle.EdwardChristian, who is adopted and has a sibling namedEmmettElliott and a sister namedAliceMia, also adopted, who live with their parentsCarlisleCarrick (really? CARRICK? We couldn't even change the first three letters?) andEsmeGrace. Theirfathermother is a doctor.RoseKate andJasperEthan are also siblings in this story, but have been changed to be friends of Anastasia, since in Twilight they already have a convenient different last name than the other Cullens.Also, he 'dazzles' her.I can't even function over the fact that upon preparing this book for publishing she couldn't change one fucking thing to make it even remotely different. That was too hard. TOO DAMN HARD. The similarities in character are so untouched that I am sincerely appalled that she thought it 'different' enough to publish as is. It's quite disgusting.Alright, continuing on, and once again, I'm sure you've heard this already: this book is terribly written. Most notably the lack of ability to describe anything other than the few choice phrases she knows how to type.He ran his hands through his hair. I bit my lip. He told me not to bite my lip. Oh jeez. He grabbed me by the chin to make me look up at him. Holy crap. I peeked up at him.Lather rinse repeat. Over. And over. And over. For 500 pages. Then there's the case of multiple personality disorder, where she hears the voices of two distinct other pieces of herself in her head. The subconscious, the one telling her she's not good enough, and the inner goddess, the one that's all into the sex. It's strange because I'm also currently reading a book right now, Deadline, where the main character hears a voice in his head because he is literally insane, and it's written almost the exact same way, he talks back to his voice, who presents herself in italics, just as Anastasia talks back to her two italics voices. It's funny because she's supposed to be completely normal, and yet shares the same schizophrenic tendencies as a book about someone who is completely insane.This is sense.Check out this awesome short paragraph from chapter 24:“Through the haze of light, I squint and see Christian leaning over me, smiling. Amused. Amused at me. Dressed! In black.”What are these fragments, four in a row. What is this punctuation. GASP AT HIM BEING CLOTHED. Is this supposed to be poetry?Let me add some line breaks for poetic interest:Through the haze of light, I squint and see ,Christian leaning over me,Smiling. Amused.Amused at me.Dressed!In black.That's almost better.Let's have another, shall we, from chapter 24 once more:“I didn't put that song on my iPod,” he says casually, and puts his foot down so that I am thrown back into my seat as the car accelerates along the freeway.What?He knows what he's doing, the bastard.Who did?And I have to listen to Britney going on and on.Who...who?The song ends and the iPod shuffles to Damien Rice being morunful.Who? Who?I stare out the window, my stomach churning. Who?SAY WHO AGAIN, BITCH. JUST TRY IT, I DARE YOU.Okay and now, maybe even worse than the writing (oh hell, nothing's worse than the writing, nevermind) is the lack of plot. Now once again, you already know this. Do I even need to tell you nothing happens? Seeing as it's based off of a book where nothing happens, you can be guaranteed that as we go one step removed, even less happens.Here is the part where I apologize to Twilight, where I said, in my page by page commentary below, that 50 Shades was more entertaining. I was at the very beginning. I was young and naïve. I didn't realize. I'm sorry.You know how The Office kind of got bad after Jim and Pam got together, because there was really nothing you were waiting for after that? This happens by like...chapter 2. You're like...okay....what, now we jut have to watch them whine as a couple for the next zillion pages? Okay.I can't even fathom that there are two other books written about this couple. I literally want to open the window and invite birds to eat my eyes out as punishment for buying and reading this book.And now for a bit of tiddlybits, I'm going to share some information on storywriting that you guys might find interesting, and will help show exactly why 50 Shades has zero plot.I went to school for film, and we had story development classes. One thing we were beaten over the head with about is something called the 7 Sentence Story. This will help for any writers that are writing their books to be cinematic or would like their novel to be considered for film purposes (this is by no means a rule, but a really helpful guideline). First, you need a problem, a conflict. A reason to tell a story. Once you have that, your plot should be able to be described in seven sentences thusly:Exposition: we are introduced to the protagonist and/or main charactersInciting Incident: something happens that kicks off the conflict, the whole point of the storyPlot Point 1: because of the inciting incident, character sets off to do something/correct the problem, etcMidpoint: here in film you might see a montage, but it's a place where either plot point 1 is resolved or there is a transition in the characters way of thinkingPlot Point 2: often an even bigger issue arises, or a twist that changes or accelerates the conflictClimax: final showdown or decisions needed to be madeResolution.: everything comes to an end, the conflict is settled in one way or anotherBasically, if you can tell your story in this way in seven sentences, you'll know that A) the main point is clear, B) that your story doesn't wander too much in different directions, and C) that you actually have a plot to stand on, that you can justify there's enough substance there.And since that's a lot of vagueness, we'll go with a classic captive/dominant story to show how one tells a story in seven sentences: Disney's Beauty and the Beast. First, the main conflict:Conflict: The prince has been turned into a beast and has only a limited time left before he is trapped forever as one.And the seven sentence story:Exposition: Belle is a smart girl who rejects the advances of Gaston, as she doesn't want to be stuck in a mundane life.Inciting Incident: Belle's father gets lost and captured by the Beast in his castle.Plot Point 1: Belle trades her freedom for her father and is prisoner in the castle.Midpoint: Belle starts to experience feelings for the Beast and is complacent.Plot Point 2: Belle's father is sick, and the Beast decides to let her go, even though he's giving up his chances of being with her.Climax: Gaston comes with an angry mob to destroy the Beast.Resolution: While Beast lays dying, his love for Belle turns him back into a human and he can live with her happily ever after.Simple, right? Of course, other things happen, but no doubt you can communicate the main story with just these sentences.Okay, so let's try 50 Shades, which, hilariously, has had its film rights bought already.Conflict: Anastasia must decide whether to be with a guy who she thinks is super hot but also scares her (This fascinating decision, I tell you what.)Exposition: Anastasia is a literary student at WSU.Inciting Incident: Anastasia meets Christian on page 7, and thinks he's hot and mysterious and also frustrating. It is clear they both have chemistry.Plot Point 1, which is sloppy and all over the place: Christian chases her down, brings her to his house and shows her he's into S&M. Also they have sex.Sorta Midpoint, but kind of squished close to Plot Point 1: Anastasia must decide whether to pledge herself to him via contract if she wants to continue seeing him.Plot Point 2: Nah, she's still deciding and whining about how he's kind of scary but continues to have sex with him throughout this whole time. There is no plot point 2.Climax: Well there isn't really one, it's just kind of an all over the place ending...either the more complicated sex scene at the end with the hymnal music or him hitting with her with the belt the next morning, one of the two I guess...Resolution: She says he's too weird and ends it.What a complex, thrilling, and incredible plot full of depth. SHOULD I HAVE CUT THAT FOR SPOILERS? OOPS? Did you even care? If you've gotten this far, nope.But guess what. We know that there are two other books and they get together and lesson isn't really learned so AWESOME, COOL. I guess that's how she gets people to buy the next ones because hot diggedy I can't wait to see them get back together and whine some more.And let's talk about the sex for a moment. Nothing forbidden actually happens that you'll be like ohhhh how scandalous I want to try that. For the most part it's pretty much all basic stuff or basic toy play, because basically he's taking it easier on her since she's inexperienced. Except for the belt part at the end, I guess, which just doesn't sound fun.And you already heard about the tampon, so like, that's not even a surprise (although imo it's not a big deal anyway. Out of all the women having sex on their periods regularly, I can guarantee you there are quite a few men that are tasked with taking the tampon out and throwing it aside.) I was actually more upset about the fact that she is sleeping completely naked in a hotel room bed on day two of her period. As if that isn't going to be a mess in the morning.Okay lest I go on as long as the book, you get the point. If you want to see more, my commentary while reading it is below. However, a few things:-I cannot stand how much the author being middle aged shows from the point of view of this 21 year old. “I'm gonna buy plane tickets...on the Internet.” ARE YOU NOW? WHOAOOOAOAOA. Don't get crazy on us, I might be too overwhelmed by this turn of events. “I fired up my email.” BLAZING SPEEDS REQUIRED.-They actually do the “you hang up” “noyouhang up” “noyou” that gross couples tend to do. And it was, expectedly, gross.-Someone on ONTD who liked this book yelled at me because I said that Christian is not a dominant (they also said I wasn't 'experienced enough to understand,' lol okay, like you know who I am, anon.) I still stand by that statement. It's not what he's doing, it's how he's doing it. He is deeply troubled, whiny, and manipulative, and while he does love control, it's for the wrong reasons. He was abused as a child, and sexually abused as a 15 year old and vastly denies it, and because of this he justifies his activities as personal preference when he is in fact a bit too fucked up to currently have a relationship. He ends up making the naïve Anastasia batshit crazy because he continues to string her along, trying to convince her they want the same things, instead of getting himself some help.-He gives her the illusion that she has the choice to back out, but then turns around and says ha-ha I'm joking but I know where to find you by the way. She goes to visit her mother because she needs a break from him to think, and what does he do? Flies out there, using his roundabout stalker way of finding information about where she's at, like he always does, to meet up, have sex with her and take her out with him. She's supposed to be visiting her mother and having time to think, yet he can't stay away and makes this about HIM, taking her away from time with her mom whom she hasn't seen in 6 months. I can't at this selfish fucking bastard because he just can't stay away.It makes me mad just thinking about someone that clingy. Which is another thing that pisses me off, almost everything about their whining and relationship conversations reminds me of everything I've hated about past relationships I've had. How does ANYONE enjoy this book? How does anyone think that this is sexy, that this depicts something they want?I can't even.I cannot.(Also I should never have imagined Chuck and Blair from Gossip Girl as the main characters. Now everytime I see a commercial for Gossip Girl, rage courses through my body.)I'm bored. Someone get me out of here.P.S. Did you know that James recently stated she's set the bar for writing pretty high?Cool.Please, do yourself a favor and go buy a book of much higher quality plot and writing, ohhhh like....Modelland.