right from the start i have to tell you that i am aghast that this is a published book in 2019. i understand that this is an adult romance and a lot of books in this genre have problematic elements. i don't understand, however, why it is necessary to include them in a 2019 release. the possessiveness, the sexism, all of it is just so wrong and just plainly bad.first of all, travis literally isn't interested in georgie until she changes her style (haircut + tighter clothes) and another man takes an interest in her.travis seems to have a very bad possessive streak. but not only him. everyone else seems to be of the opinion that women belong to men. in this case georgie either belongs to stephen, georgie's brother (who can honestly CHOKE) or travis himself. travis always seems to be apprehensive about getting physical with georgie becaue she's his best friend's little sister and because he might have a problem with it. like, boy, she is her own person,she is 23, she knows how to make her own decisions. in the end he says:“some part of me still thought of you as my friend's little sister. not anymore. you're all mine now. i'll take you how i want.“where do i even begin explaining what's wrong with this?stephen also almost punches travis because of his relationship with georgie (at this point, they are still only fake-dating, but obviously, stephen doesn't know that) and says stupid shit like"i think you know i have to", like no, you literally don't??this "woman belongs to man" thing also appears when they are in bed together."i've got no fucking right to be between these legs.""you do. i gave it to you."and this is so important. travis still doesn't see georgie as her own person, but still as someone who belongs to stephen. he apparently thinks that he needs stephen’s permission to be "between her legs" when no, that's not the case. she gave you her consent and that is the only thing you should worry about right now. she wants this. give it to her. start thinking of her as a human being and not as a property of someone else.travis also seems to be of the conception that georgie needs his help and that she can't be around other men when he's not around because she can't protect herself, or, i don't know, i have no idea what that boy thinks half of the time. she talks FOR her when she is standing directly next to him. like, shut the fuck up and let HER talk. he seems to have the priority to keep other men away from her and that is just one step too much over the line; his jealously (that really is unreasonable because georgie's been in love with him for, like, forever) really got out of hand here. he feels SO threatened by other men, it's not healthy.georgie mentions a lot how her family and the town they live in still see her as the child, the little sister she was when she was younger. travis assures her that he sees more than that. but he destroys his case when he calls her "baby girl" constantly. i probably missed a few, but i have counted 49 times. i can get behind the concept that he calls her that during sexy times, but outside of bed it's mostly inappropriate. if you see her as an adult, don't call her BABY girl all the time.what i found a bit questioning was the repeated mention of georgie being a virgin. hear me out, it's totally okay and realistic for a 23-year-old woman to be a virgin, yes. georgie, howevery, is incredibly sex-positive so she definitely doesn't wait until marriage, and she masturbates frequently with the help of her vibrator dale (a fact that travis still doesn't seem to get behind and also feels threatened by??). of course, none of these are reason why she couldn't be a virgin, i just find it a bit unrealistic and it only seems to be an added feature to make her that "wholesome woman" travis can "deflower". travis thinks a lot abut her being a virgin and it's a motivation but also a reason for him to back away, i really don't get him.travis is supposed to be this very mature guy who has all this sexual experience. if he really would have had all this experience, one could think he'd have his sexual arousal a bit more under control. he doesn’t. travis is literally a 16-year-old teenager. there is not one chapter where he doesn't have a boner, thinks about sex or imagines a very normal situation in a sexual context. this boy is horny ALL OF THE TIME. he gets a boner from a hug. this is so incredibly ridiculous.i'm also very confused if he call his dick "two bats" or himself (because he has two bats: his baseball bat and his dick)??we start this book off with travis basically being depressed because he lost his position as a pro baseball player due to a shoulder injury (that's never really talked about?), in the end he says that without georgie he never would've gotten out of that hole. he just seems very dependent on her, like, if she would leave he would just crumble back into his little cave. that, to me, seems very unhealthy because it sounds like "i'm better BECAUSE of her" and not "she helps me getting better".let's come to the writing. it wasn't particularly bad but also not good.there were a lot of ... treasures that i have to share with you.•“the pleasure of the flesh”(which only sounds like a really bad band name)•“classic sign of AN AROUSED MALE”•“the giant appendage that made Georgie feel like she was sitting on a full aluminium foil roll”(I MEAN WHAT IS THAT? WHY IS SHE USING THESE WORDS TO DESCRIBE TRAVIS’S DICK WHAT)•“his flesh”(a synonym for his dick? c'mon)•“the organ in his chest”(you know, his HEART)•“a cornered male”•“the look of pure male exasperation(how does that differ from normal exasperation, please tell me)•“contentment spread like JAM ON BREAD in her belly”(why do use these words for this comparison, I have so many questions)•“male rapture”honestly, i'm gonna kill myself if i have to read any of that one more time."he couldn’t help speculating on how her neck would taste. or the inside of her wrist."this just sounds like he's a vampire and wants to drink her blood, why.the sex scenes were ... an adventure. in general, they weren't too bad, the best one is probably is still the first one (at least they do the do in the bed). all of them are rather ridiculous instead of steamy, but to be honest, i have read worse.the only thing i wish to unsee is"with a handful of little-sister tit.". i am honestly crying because what the hell is that supposed to mean, please do not refer to her breast as LITTLE. SISTER. TIT. you have to see how wrong that is."sweet girl. so beautiful." "sweet man. so strong."at this point, i was mostly laughing, what even is that. (but can you see the difference how the refer to each other. girl. man. girl - not woman. but apparently he sees her as an adult, hmm)aside from the problem with the amount of possessiveness there's also a hell lot of sexism (looking at you, stephen):•“what he said yesterday wasn’t arrogance talking – it was simply more common for women to get attached when sex was part of the equation. basic science, right?”•“there’s something up with the womenfolk”•“by georgie’s third attempt to back into a parking space, travis was shaking his head.”(this is funny because women can't drive???)•“typical feminine urge to squeal to her friends”• stephen not allowing bethany, his sister, more freedom in their company when both of them inherited it because he’s a traditionalist?? wow, no, women can’t take on more responsibility than men or what I DON’T GET YOU, STEPHEN, HONESTLYlast but not least, the fucking proposal. what the hell was that. he proposed to her on PUBLIC TELEVISION. i honestly couldn't believe what i was reading. i just wanted to die and not in a good way. why the sudden change of heart? don't tell me georgie just changed your whole personality, wtf wtf wtf no i'm throwing up and crying and just BYEthis all sounds very negative, which it also is. but not everything was a total disaster. the Just Us League was great. women supporting women? hell yes, that's what i want to see. especially, since their goals weren't male related. they wanted to achieve their goals and dreams, and that was really nice to see.also georgie in general was a good protagonist. yeah, she is a bit naive, but she grows and it mostly her own person with strengths and insecurities.the pacing of this book was good. even if i had a lot of problems with it, i didn't want to put the book down. i just continued reading.i wouldn't reread this book because honestly, i couldn't take another 400 pages of travis and stephen.(i also just really hate the name travis)1.5/5