2.25*What a lousy guy. Add stupid, insensitive and inconsistent to it.Always, it's someone else's fault and never his (or mostly the h's) - whether he dumps his young wife or cheats on his fiancée. Of course, with the present situation - an ex-wife's sudden reappearance, a newly discovered teenage daughter and a haughty high maintenance fiancee - it cannot be neat or easy for the guy.But it's clear he wants his cake and eat it too.The Past-The h has alwaaays loved him. I mean (blech but) since kindergarten and he has ignored her since then. Never good enough for the golden boy - pigtails, braces, nerdy, pudgy, pimply - that's how he has sees her over the years. In high school, he's into football and cheerleaders (has one for a gf).One night, he gives the h a ride home and wham! The gf wasn't letting him go 'beyond first base' and the nerdy girl gave him 'the smile', the one he never forgot. He doesn’t contact her in the following weeks, she becomes pregnant, her parents call up his and they are married. A marriage that last only 13 horrible days, during which he seethes and ignores her. One cannot completely blame him. They’re just kids and their lives seem to have changed overnight - and he, especially is unable to cope.He sees a bloodied panty and calls her pregnancy a lie, and walks out, followed by a divorce.Now-By providence (and the author's imagination), his fiancée wants to get married in a small/home town and his would have to do (as she's an army brat). She picks up the h's heritage inn as ‘the place’. The h/H, by unspoken agreement, act as strangers and try to make the ow change her plans about the inn. The h is scared that the H would see his daughter and the H is still angry with his dishonest ex-wife. The truth does come out and the angry H plays all the usual lawyer/custody cards before they decide on more amicable route. He comes down for few days, every week to be with his daughter while still angry (more so, in fact) and unforgiving to the h. But the sparks (very mild to my eyes) do flare up etc.I prefer a little spine (if not spunk) and self-respect from my hs. She's so ready to fall in his arms even with his fickle back and forth moves. They are kissing/flirting one minute and the next he's pushing her away or feeling guilty, and when next they meet, it's a repeat of this. FGS, he's sleeping with the ow all along. even though things have cooled a tad, we are told.Her reasoning -“Travis is the man for me. I’m just not the woman for him.”But lady, that doesn’t mean you lie down and become a doormat.The fiancée is a TV presenter (and apparently wealthier than him). They've been steady for 4 years. As I see it, the ow (is she one?) treats the H with slight annoyance and lots of condescension. They are not really a great couple in the beginning, but the author redeems her and shows her as a woman whose fiancé lies to her, maybe cheats on her (she's not sure of him) and they are drifting apart even as she tries to be nice to his new/suddenly-there daughter. The last/breakup scene between the H-ow gives her the respect and dignity that a woman in her situation deserves.The last hea scene is cute and lovely, as are few other parenting scenes, especially the one where the daughter jumps on the leaf-pile and mother and daughter connect.Nigglings-*So, good that the ow isn't demonized and she behaves in a very dignified way. Her feelings and thoughts are given importance and that last H-ow scene is quite tender.BUTthat only heavily underlines that the H treats everyone with care - ow, mother, daughter -buthis ex-wife.>>Now, tender is fine but one does not need the H saying to the ow in their last scene together -“Why does a little part of me wish we’d never gone to New Hampshire?”>>Also -'He realized he had missed Mia (daughter) more than he ever thought it possible to miss another person. He missed Gena (h), too—so much his heart ached with it—but without Mia he felt as if a part of himself was gone.'Actually, I understand both these sentiments and they are realistic enough. But in a romance novel and at the fag end? Ummm, nope!*And knowing he went into debt to buy the ow's engagement ring kind of killed it for me anyways. I was more on watch to see if she'd give it back to him at the end or not - because otherwise the h/H would be screwed financially in their hea.*I'd probably rate it 1/2 a star higher but for the H's insensitive mood swings.