5 "Love makes you stupid" stars"Don't get too comfortable Zara. This place might be beautiful, but it's a fucking prison, and everyone who lives here is miserable."So. Much. Angst.that literally took my breath away and made me pause so many times. This book had everything I crave in a dark and taboo romance. The first time I read the blurb I knew i had to read this and that was the best decision ever made. It's been days since I finished this and yet it's still on my mind. Every time I remember a certain part, I get goosebumps. This read showed how grief turns people into the worst version of themselves. There's so much pain, anger, helplessness with no way out. The next thing I loved the most were the different tropes all put together in an erotic package. You don't believe me, here they are....Enemies to Lovers✔️Age-gap✔️Forbidden/taboo✔️Love triangle✔️Steamy AF✔️Angsty✔️Alpha Billionaires✔️Forced proximity✔️Slow Burn✔️Menage✔️Now that's a pretty big list but trust me it all works well and you won't be disappointed since it has a little something for everyone. Zara, Nash and Alistair will break your heart and put it back together. Their journey is full of ups and down and so worth it.I remember searching their features for their sadness, desperate to know that mine was not alone, but what I found was an older man, stone cold and empty, and a son with a brow full of anger and a jaw clenched so tight it looked like it would crack.Their lives turn upside down when Zara loses her twin sister who's the light to her dark along with said twin's boyfriend who happens to be Nash's older brother and Alistair's son tragically in a plane crash near the island owned by the Wilde's. Zara had a little crush on Nash but after the crash, she only wants to stay away. Their paths cross two years later when Nash visits her in the city where she works as a stripper and every painful memory flashes back but their intense chemistry is just as strong.The man I knew was polished and exquisite in a way that made me painfully attracted to him. I wanted him so badly then I could hardly speak around him.Now, he looks broken.Zara feels the pain Nash is going through when she sees him and understands how he's trying to cope with it by drinking alcohol and constantly partying but shocks her the most is the darkness she senses in him which isn't how she remembers him.Clenching my jaw, I think about her tiny frame, whimpering underneath me. Tied up in my bed. Her gentle throat in my hands. Begging me to stop.Nash remembers Zara well and now after what they went through, he feels anger seeing her moved on and he craves to hurt her in his own depraved ways as that's the only way he feels alive. There always was a push and pull between them and it only intensified all these years which made for some very hot and sexually charged moments from the beginning.As if he wasn't enough, she gets a visit from Alistair the same week who is so much more mature, domineering and broody than his son and makes her so nervous and hot. While Nash looks friendly and approachable, Alistair is allhard edges and ruthless and off limits.She too senses the pain and loss he's feeling but is clearly doing the better job of masking it so when he makes a crazy proposal to bring his son back on track and offers her a million dollars, she's unable to refuse even though she doesn't wanna go back to the one place she swore she'll never go.Soon they all are in close quarters and the tension multiplies tenfold.I feel like clay in his hands, too easy to mold and control. He brings his lips down to my ear, but keeps his voice and normal volume as he says, "It's ironic that you're here to make me better when the things I want to do to you are the worst things I've ever wanted to do."While Nash and Zara had a fast paced, can't take hands off each other, angry and passionate moments, Alistair and Zara had an equally slow burn filled with hidden glances, madness, sensual and light touches and baring of secrets before they ended up all hot and heavy.Alistair is kissing me, his lips on my body, and God, I wish I could feel them on my mouth. The risk and the danger only makes this passion burn brighter.Zara was the link keeping all of them together and the one healing them. Her chemistry and attraction was quite intense and strong with both of them but it was only a matter of time before she had to choose one."I feel that pussy pulse in my hands. How much is Daddy paying you to be my whore, huh?"Ever second I think I'm about to take flight, he pulls away and I know he's doing it on purpose. This is a mind game to him, another form of torture because that's all Nash know how to be with people now."If you want to come, you have to say it, Zara. Say you're my whore. Admit you're just as fucked up as me. You like it when I treat you like shit as much as I like being the piece of shit who does it. We're both fucked up, Zara, so admit it and I'll let you come all over my hand, then we can go home."The glimpses into Alistair and Nash's mind helped me understand them better. Nash hated his father for what he did and wanted to punish him by ignoring. I desperately wanted to know the secret behind the hatred which kept hanging like a dark cloud and I could tell it was going to be like a bomb going off when it came to light. Zara was a force of her own who kept bringing them closer and a step towards moving on. She was just as broken and damaged as them and it was Alistair who pushed her to face her demons. I loved the cozy moments between her and Alistair.Because any woman would be glad to be trapped on a billionaire’s private island with two incredibly sexy men who both seem to think they own her, and no one could rightly blame me for thisJust as I let out a loud moan, writhing on the pool deck, I secretly hope Alistair can see this. In fact, I know he has a perfect view from his office. I imagine he’s in there right now, watching Nash tongue fuck me on the pool deck only a couple hours after I came on his lap.Like Nash said...game on.This was a love triangle like no other and I didn't even know it was until the second half of the book and came as quite a surprise. This book gave me all the feels. I broke, cried, laughed, hated, grieved, fought, healed and loved right along with them. Also the man Zara chose was the perfect for her and I couldn't be happier for them both. The author did an excellent job of bringing depth along with steamy scenes which I can't stress enough were filthy with dirty talking alphas. Keep ready to fan yourself 'cause you'll want these Wilde men for yourself.I also wanted to share a little edit I made for this book.”She would be my downfall, my biggest distraction, and I was right.”