Wow. Once again I’ve read a completely different book than the one star reviews. There’s NO CHEATING in thought or deed by the H. Marital or otherwise...ESPECIALLY none after they are married.Sixteen years before present, H/h are sweethearts, her father lies to her and she thinks the H dumped her. The H thinks she’s dumped him and for 3 years she dates another guy who manipulates her into it and she doesn’t put out, but remains a virgin. I hate this trope...The Great Misunderstanding...where ONE fucking conversation could avoid a shit-ton of drama. Don’t get me started on the virgin thing.There are 3 mentions the H is a player during that INITIAL separation but once he sees her again, even during their second breakup, he’s FAITHFUL. There’s one OW scene where he kicks OW out the morning that he’s later reunited with his h. There’s one almost scene where he declines from another OW the night they’re reunited where he leaves with OW, doesn’t fuck her, but goes back to his h and makes her move in with him because she’s living in a dump. The only other OW bit after that is the same OW who perused him 12 years before present whom he slept with ONCE and then TURNED DOWN REPEATEDLY. That same OW, who’s a skanky married ho, texts him during the present about being the lawyer on their adoption and he doesn’t even see her physically in the present.There is ABSOLUTELY NO INTIMATION that the H is unfaithful.Period.End of.Faithful as fuck.Every. Step. Of. The. Way.Seriously...What version of this book are others reading????Would I recommend this?Fuck, no.The writing is passable, the plot too thin and short, and the ending is so abrupt and neatly wrapped up I’m not sure what the problem actually was in the present. I’m left with...Pregnancy hormones?I’m just floored I’ve stopped worrying about the 5 star fan girls oohing and ahhing bulllshit and rainbows and now I have to watch out for the manho haters misrepresenting true plot lines.WTF people, searching a book for keywords doesn’t mean you fucking read it.I’m grumpy and I’m on the lookout for my next trainwreck. This wasn’t a trainwreck. This was a badly plotted Hallmark script with ZERO cheating.You’re welcome.2 stars, but all the misinformed reviews make me feel like leaving a 3.