“How do you regret one of the best nights of your entire life? You don't. You remember every word, every look. Even when it hurts, you still remember.”Yippee, I'm finally getting around to writing this 😭 I swear, I've been trying to write a review for the past few days because I have SO many reviews I need to catch up on but I just haven't been able to push myself to do so.And I read this book a while ago, but I REFUSE to reread this dumpster fire of a series just to write a review, so I apologize for that 🤩Anyways, I only rated this a 0.5 star higher than the first book was because apparently Belly was "slightly better" in this book, so I'm just gonna believe my past self and say that THAT is the reason.✩✩So in terms of the plot, this book actually had a semblance of a plot unlike the first one, so it was a little better. I'll also add in, I got intentionally spoiled for this whole series, so I knew how this book started, but I didn't think that it would be SO blunt like I couldn't even cry (not that I would have because there was no way that the writing could possibly move me to tears after loathing the first book)Also, regarding the prom scene, I was honestly so let down. Everyone on TikTok was saying "oh no I'm so scared to see the prom scene in season 2 of the show" so that was the ONE thing I was looking forward to, but I didn't even realize that it was happening until it was over, and I had to flip back to reread it. I guess I just didn't care about the characters at all to even realize what was going on.Now this is just me being a hater, but I didn't like that Jeremiah was so present in this. Like he and Belly were together the entire time and I hate both of them so I kinda wanted them to disappear, which makes no sense but that's alright.✩✩In my little description thing down there that I wrote after finishing the book I stated: "Belly's a brat, Jeremiah's annoying, and Conrad's amazing." Now I do standby those statements, EXCEPT for the last one. Conrad is not amazing. None of these characters are amazing. They all suck.But anyways, Belly the Brat is as annoying as ever, and while I don't remember, my past self says that she was less annoying in this book than in the first one, so that's a plus. I just absolutely hate how much she plays with the brothers' feelings, like girl, please, just choose one and go, neither of them are even good choices, grab Cam Cameron and LEAVE. Actually, leave Cam out of this, he deserves the world.Also, telling Connie to go to hell at his mother's funeral is unforgivable. I have no idea why he would even want her after that. Or at all, actually.Connie Baby is alright, but incredibly moody if I remember correctly. I mean sure, he has the right considering the CIRCUMSTANCES that this book revolves around, but I am picky and moodiness annoys me, even though I am the embodiment of moodiness. Though I don't understand why he would (sorry, I say this about Belly a lot), you can tell that Connie cares about Belly a lot, and I like that he has that capability (except for that one scene I referred to about my disappointment)Jere Bear Jeremy is insufferable as always, like the whiny human he is. He has such bad jealousy issues around Belly, as if he owns her and no other man can go near her. He slanders Conrad so hard, even though Conrad is just being silent and moody. LET PEOPLE BROOD, TALKING SHIT ABOUT THEM WON'T HELP THEM AT ALL. I get that they're going through the same thing in different ways, but PLEASE do it in a healthier way than being mean to others.I don't even remember any other characters in this book so that's all for this sections, folks.✩✩The romance was dead, love triangles are criminal, Belly is a player, Jeremiah's the rebound, and Conrad is the ex-lover that she totally doesn't wanna get back together with.Perfect description if you ask me, not gonna lie.✩✩Overall, this book sucks, as does the next one, but I adore writing rants so this was very refreshing after having taken a long break from writing good reviews 😌2 stars“And no matter what you do or how hard you try, you can’t stop yourself from dreaming.”<><><><><><><><>i didn't expect much from this so i'm not even disappointed. Belly's a brat, Jeremiah's annoying, and Conrad's amazingrtc (2 stars- only because i like Belly SLIGHTLY more in this one than in the first one)