3.5 starsAlice has been alone most of her teenage life, her sister pretty much raised her until she was 13 years old but then enlisted in the military, leaving her with their intermittent mother. As soon as she was able to drive she packed up her dad’s old RV and has lived on the road ever since. She travels all over the country doing seasonal work, turning her hand to anything that helps her pay her way and move on to the next town.Alice is passing through Rockhead Point, Montana, on her way up to the mountains for the ski season when her RV takes it’s last breath. Lucky for her a local stops to help her out, however she is initially a bit terrified of him. Granger Barnett is a big strapping man, a true mountain man but she eventually works out that he is genuine in his offer to simply help her out. After organising her RV to be towed and taking her to see the local sheriff, he insists that she comes back to the family homestead so his family can host her while her RV is fixed.What Alice doesn’t know is that she has now been claimed. There are seven Barnett brothers and two of them have claimed a woman of their own already. Apparently it’s a family trait, when you meet the one meant for you, you will know instantly. You will do everything you can to keep them in your life, which may include a ring on the finger and a baby in the oven as fast as possible.'Fuck, this is her. My woman. Mine. All mine. How is this possible? How can it happen just like that? One glance and I knew, unequivocally knew without any element of doubt that I’m going to make this woman mine, that I’m going to marry her, fill her with my baby and keep her forever.’Alice has a lot of negative self-talk filling her head, she has people walk out of her life so many times that she believes the only reason must be her. Granger may be showing interest in her now but any other guy that has before usually loses interest within a day or so. She soon finds out that she has underestimated Granger Barnett. You see, he wants her to depend on him completely. He wants to take care of her every want and need.‘I want Alice to be completely mine in this seriously old fashioned, me man, you woman way that I have never considered attractive until today. I want her to need me for everything. I want to be the person she goes to for every need, thought and desire.’Alice is fiercely independent but is warming to the idea of having some take care of her. Someone she can rely on, someone to help carry the load and someone who makes her feel wanted and desired. And seriously, she had no idea sex could be so freaking amazing. Granger is determined to show Alice that she was meant to meet him that day, she was meant to be his, he will not take no for an answer.‘Granger doesn’t see my issues as flaws, he embraces them and me. He wants to solve my problems, be my anchor in a storm and I want to let him, not because I need him to look after me, but because my life is full and happy for the first time in years, and it’s all because of him.’The author quite rightly gives a warning at the beginning of this story so please read this to work out if this is something you would like to read. I went in with an open mind, knowing what to expect and had no issues with the content. Great reading escapism!