Review of Love Unrehearsed by Tina Reber (and recap of Love Unscripted as well)Love Unrehearsed is the long-awaited sequel to Tina Reber's awesome debut novel,Love Unscripted. It is the continuation of Taryn Mitchell and Ryan Christensen's love story...a story of doubts and acceptance, of misgivings and trust, of hopes shattered then pieced back together, of total devastation and extreme elation, of closures and new beginnings; and, ultimately, a story of finding blissful peace and life-long contentment from loving someone completely and unequivocally, and having that love reciprocated in spades.In Love Unscripted, we were treated to all the angst we could possibly hope for in a "new adult" contemporary romance. Taryn Mitchell -a 27-yr-old Rhode Island resident, owner of Mitchell's Pub, smart, understated beauty, recently "un"engaged from Thomas, her significant other of 2 years who she found in bed with someone else- meets Ryan Christensen -a 26-yr-old guy who lives out of a suitcase, world-renown movie star, becoming wise to the selfish, ruthless people in the entertainment industry, gloriously beautiful but without conceit, recently unattached from a woman who sold their personal story to the tabloids- when the two collide on the street as Ryan is literally running for his life from a hoard of crazed female fans. Taryn sneaks him into her bar and for the next four hours they drink beer, do shots, play pool and have a great time getting to know each other. Ryan and his entourage come into the bar several more times as they are filming only a few blocks away, but it is clear they are there because Ryan is developing a "thing" for Taryn and vice versa. Taryn, who has major self-esteem issues, is convinced they can never be more than friends because they come from two extremely different worlds. Ryan, on the other hand, sees the glass half full and pushes for more. After a very enjoyable - and believeable - 100 pages of getting to know each other, the day of reckoning finally dawns.“So… am I to understand that you’re mine?” I asked teasingly. “I can be yours if you want me to be, Taryn,” he whispered. My breath hitched from his words. My pulse quickened and my fingers started to tremble. “Is that your intention?” I asked, still skeptical. Ryan cleared his throat. “My intention is to let you know where my heart is. The rest… the rest is up to you,” he said softly. I took another deep breath. My own heart was thumping in my chest now. “So… now what? Where do we go from here?” “We give it a chance,” Ryan declared quite convincingly.Finally, Taryn and Ryan become lovers...thatswoon-worthy, "bedroom door wide open" scene reason alone to read the first book...and their relationship becomes exclusive. Now the angst begins. Taryn and Ryan deal with one intrusive situation after another - jealously from Ryan's leading lady inSeaside, the papparazzi relentless in their pursuit of pictures and a story of not only Ryan but a very uncooperative Taryn - who guards her privacy zealously - as well, a car accident, a pregnancy scare and a deranged stalker intent on doing away with Taryn so she can have Ryan - are just a handful of problems they encounter. Still, Tar and Ryan continue to grow as a couple and are very much in love. But Taryn's self-esteem issues eventually get the better of her and the angst gets ratcheted up to its peak and finally explodes when she joins Ryan on-set in Florida and becomes convinced he is sleeping with his co-star (who happens to be his ex lover). It is heart-wrenching to watch Taryn suffer, especially because the story is told in 1st person by her.The ending of Love Unscripted is terribly sweet and perfect for the moment but really only leaves Taryn and Ryan with a HFN ending. On to book two.All eyes were on him as he stood atop the table. It was so quiet in the crowded bar, you could have heard a pin drop. I could hear my heart hammering in my chest as I stared up at him. “We’ve made a beautiful mess of things lately, haven’t we?” He flashed that sexy crooked smile at me, which made my heart flutter. I nodded, agreeing with him. “But it’s our crazy story,” he stated. “It’s been ours, only ours. There’s been a lot of romance, sometimes way too much drama…” He raised his eyebrows and smirked. “Very memorable comedy, a few pulse-racing action scenes…” He shrugged and sighed. “We’ve also had our fair share of suspense and raw terror, and unfortunately gut-wrenching heartache too. “I think we’ve covered it all, everything except for being captured by aliens!” I couldn’t help but chuckle. “But through it all you’ve loved me, unconditionally, and I know how fortunate I am to have your love. “I don’t want to live without you, not for one more minute, not for one more second. I want to spend the rest of my days living my story with you… only you.” He walked to the edge and jumped off the table, landing in front of me. “It is here that I fell in love with you,” Ryan whispered, taking my hands in his. He dropped down on one knee. “And as fate would have it, it is here that I humbly kneel before you and ask you to be my wife. “Taryn Lynn Mitchell, will you marry me?”Love Unrehearsed begins with Taryn and Ryan engaged and very much in love. But the demands of Ryan's job force their way into the couple's private world right from the start, as he must deal with Marla, the publicist from hell, and David, his manager from the same place, who insist Ryan cannot go public with his engagement. At first Ryan goes along with their plan; soon, however, he understands how much it is hurting Taryn so he basically says "fuck it" and lets the world know he is in love. And he fires Marla...a wonderful turn of events that unfortunately will have repercussions later.The angst in the second part of this love story is nothing compared to what we experienced in the first part, and because of this I enjoyed Love Unrehearsed even more. LU is basically a story about what it would actually be like for a girl to be in a relationship with someone as famous as Ryan. Less angst, however, does not mean there wasn't any at all because there was indeed plenty. It just played out differently; and, IMO was much easier to handle. The biggest reason for this is that Ryan, and even Taryn, are pretty much secure with their love and in their relationship. Angst presents itself as ramifications of being a movie star when both Ryan and Taryn so desperately want to live a life as close to normal as possible...so much so that protecting their privacy lands each of them in jail on separate occasions! Surprisingly, Taryn adapts to her new life much better than I expected she would. She suffers through two major (and totally unforeseen) personal crisis' that both end well for her, although one is a little bittersweet. Of course, being a woman very much in love with an actor who works primarily in the romance genre would really suck at times...I don’t care how other women would handle watching their man fake sex with another woman; I twitched when Jonathan yelled “Action!” yet again. Ryan’s mouth on her jaw, her lips, grinding her into the bed like he was actually fucking her looked so real that the heartache seared its way up my throat. It’s pretend. It’s fake. The sheet covering them slipped and a good sliver of Ryan’s ass was now in full view. No matter how many times I repeated my mantra it still didn’t keep the bile from rising up.But Taryn hangs on to her sanity and eventually coaxes Ryan back into the "fake sex" and everything else acting entails when he reaches a point in his life where he feels that the sacrifices are too great for doing the job that he truly does love. Tina Reber did an outstanding job of portraying the everyday life of a famous man and the woman who loves that man unconditionally. I've read both books twice and can't wait to find a quiet weekend to sit down and read them again. *sigh* Ryan is that perfect hero who is so much fun to read about and Taryn is the ideal woman for him. Their journey to reach happily-ever-after was not an easy one; yet despite all of the situations that could have broken them apart and all of the temptations to stray that were presented to Taryn as well as Ryan, not once did either of them falter. From the day they agreed they were in an exclusive, committed relationship they remained that way; and because of this Ryan had my total heart. Love Unscripted & Love Unrehearsed together present one of the most heartwarming and truly enjoyable love stories I have ever read!10 stars