5Beautiful, Emotional & Unexpected Love”stars ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Although I saw him first and told myself at the young age of ten that I was madly in love with this beautiful man, said beautiful man fell in love with someone else.My mother.I was ten years old when I fell in love.Two years later, I fell in hate.My first ever book by this author and what an amazing and erotic experience it was. I won’t be forgetting these characters for a while, that’s for sure. The writing was flawless with so much depth. What I can’t get over is just how hot and filthy it was and the connection between the MCs. The taboo aspect was done amazingly well. I was unable to put it down and finished it in a couple of hours.Stassia Vale saw Dominic Callahan for the first time when she was ten years old and fell in love at first sight. He looked like a prince from one of her fairy tales but she soon turns to hate him when years later he marries her mother, shattering her dream of ever being together with him. She tries to push down her feelings by basically being a brat and annoying him which leads to heat up arguments and a lot of tension filled back and forth following years.Tragedy strikes when her mother gets killed in an accident when she’s about to graduate her school. She’s sees Dominic in a new light when they start to grieve together, they are almost civil to each other. With them spending a lot of time together, a different kind of tension starts to build between them. One late night when they are both high, she confesses her childhood crush on him, more like it slips out and they can tell that things will never be the same way.I’ve always been very careful to keep him out of my thoughts when my hand is between my legs and I can’t start now.Not while we’re alone in the house.Not while we’re both vulnerable.Not while he’s lonely.Not now that I’m legal.At the beginning, it felt like a delicious slow burn which later picks up heat when they go on a trip together which forces them to confront this newfound attraction between them.I’m playing with fire. Actually, fuck playing. I’ve taken up residence in hell and Satan has been whispering in my ear all night about how fucking sinful Stassia looks. How every move she makes is so innocent and yet so sexual that it makes me feel things I’ve never felt before.It feels innocent since no one knows who they are which makes it easier to pretend that they are not stepfather and stepdaughter. They agree for this single weekend but deep down they know it will be impossible to get back to the way things were before despite them trying so hard.”You…you want it? You want…my virginity?”“I want anything you’re willing to give me,” I tell her honestly as I stare into her chocolate eyes. She’s full of fire but there’s also softness and innocence behind the burning embers and I’ll certainly walk through hell to touch that part of her. To feel that. To love that.“I want to give you…me.”Up to this weekend, the way things matured between them is what I loved the most. What made their chemistry even better was how they helped each other heal. Dominic was there for her every step of the way even though his pain and loss was the same. It was equally hard for them both. It was Dominic’s second wife who passed away and for stassia, losing your mother at such a young age is never easy. Their pain and hurt brought tears to my eyes. The words of wisdom from Dominic were truly heartfelt which is what made me fall in love with him.I drool at the thought. The thought of plucking that thin string, moving it to the side, and sliding my tongue between her ass and into that sacred hole. My mouth waters at the idea of kissing her through those sheer panties. “Do you have hair on your cunt, Stassi? Or are you bare?”“Fuck.” She breathes out and stares at the road in front of us. “I’m bare…”“Of course, you are,” I grumble. I hadn’t expected anything else from my walking sex of a stepdaughter.I did not expect the level of filth and dirty talk the author wrote. It took me by surprise and after the initial shock, I could not get enough. Dominic had a vivid dirty mind, he truly fucked like an animal in a totally hot way. The dirty talk was off the charts sexy and made the scenes all the more steamy. It wasn’t just him but stassia gave back as good as she got, her mouth and mind were just as sexy and irresistible.”If you even think about getting prude on me, I’ll put you on your stomach, tie your arms and legs to each corner of this bed and eat your ass until you fucking cry,” he growls as his tongue circles my hole.“I just…”“Till. You. Cry,” he says as he probes my ass between each word. He pulls back and smacks my ass again before I feel his cock again. I turn around and see his eyes boring into mine, a sweet smile playing on his lips despite his sinfully sexy words and actions. “Before this weekend is over, I will have claimed every inch of your skin with my lips and tongue.”Back home, they are only able to resist each other for a week before they give in to their desires again but it can never be as easy as when they were on vacation. To truly make it work they had to face challenges as well as their love for each other.”You’re going to ruin me.”“Never.”“This is going to ruin me.”My tongue darts out to wet my lips. “Only when it’s over,” I whisper. “Only when our time is up and you can’t touch me or taste me or fuck me. But not now, we still have now.”It made for a very angsty and tension filled push and pull. With her absentee father in the picture again who kept making things worse, it truly made things harder. Despite some drama because of it, I was happy they fought it and finally got their HEA.”Us? There’s an us?”“There’s been an us. For longer than both of us probably realized. You and I, we were unexpected, Stassia. A surprise that I never saw coming. But fuck, am I glad you happened.”The author did an excellent job in not making it seem creepy or wrong in a bad way. The connection was genuine and made them compatible. Stassia was an amazing heroine who seemed mature beyond her years and made her my favourite. Dominic was a perfect match for her, I loved his depth, possessiveness, filthy mind and most importantly the way he loved her.I have read my fair share of taboo romance but not one with so much emotion and connection which was a nice change and I highly recommend this to all my friends who crave a taboo and dirty romance like me. ♥️