There.I gave it a try.It’s definitely not my idea of romance and it has some good things and some bad things. Of course this is my unfiltered modest and very fallible but never bought opinion.- good things first. The psychological analysis is very good. The heroine has been and is struggling with several mental disorders. Depression, anorexia, dysmorphia.She was a not so quite skinny child and then teenager, not fat but not that skinny and everyone starting from her own mother called her fat and made her feel less because of her looks. The hero has sex with her at 17, and she 16, for a bet and she overhears him telling his friends that her virginity made up for her looks. Or lack of thereof. After this she spirals on anorexia, the hero was the point of the iceberg, her family though was the start of all her issues. She manages to control her disorders but is still struggling 15 years later. The part about her disorder is very good. And it was painful, not easy at all.- the part about Savannah high society is quite entertaining but it’s sometimes excessive and resembles a serial from the 80s like Dinasty, Dallas, or something similar, where rich people are mean to each other, marriages are arranged and unhappy, men drinks and cheat and women are frigid bitches. And the patriarchy. Jesus. Not even in Italy 60 years ago a son called his father sir. This is Victorian. So this part was good but too caricature like.Then what I didn’t like.- the hero. Not before, not after. He’s 32 going on 14. Oh he’s been remorseful for what he did because he really liked the heroine but he liked his status more so he betrayed her. I pitied him more than I pitied the heroine. He’s a people pleaser. A doormat. Everyone’s little bitch. He acts like everyone expects him to act. He has a fiancee he doesn’t love and doesn’t even like sexually. His sex life has never been satisfactory after the trick he did to the heroine and having sex with his fiancee is less exciting than with a blow doll. He’s not mean, he’s just weak, coward, spineless. He’s personality free. When he finally leaves his fiancee we can’t be but happy but it looks like he won II world war. He doesn’t know what he wants to be, he doesn’t wasn’t to get married ever or to have kids because of responsibilities. Jesus. He’s 13 mentally speaking. I never found him attractive, I couldn’t understand how he could be with a woman for one year he didn’t even have sex with, and he despises her, just because of society expectation. What country is this? Not USA 2024, for sure. Basically I never warmed to him. He’s not bad, he’s simply ecological, he’s got zero impact on me.- the heroine. She’s a mess. And it’s sad. Ok, realistic and all that, but if you want to be realistic you have to do it all the way and not force a love story between the heroine and the man who’s the cause of her breakdown. This is not realistic at all. Since she was definitely not healed, she should not have been attracted to him and she should have been with a New Romantic interest, someone not linked to her trauma. Yes he changed and yada yada, but the damage he did to her was too big to simply get over it and feel attraction and love for the trigger of her breakdown. Nope.- the unromantic ending. I understand this author wants to have her cake and eat it too, because she would like to write romantic books hp like, but she also wants to be politically correct and woke follower, like when she makes one of her heroes bisexual just because, or when, as in this case, she makes the heroine a woman who doesn’t want to get married ever or have children ever.Ok, wedding and children are not end game for all people in real life and this is good, but if you write a romance you should at least leave the door open for further development. The heroine feeling she doesn’t want children or marriage when we know she is suffering from several mental issues is not showing a good and balanced choice. It looks like since she’s been so hurt, she wants to close that part of her life. And the hero deciding he doesn’t want the responsibility of marriage and children is the same, a reaction to something bad that happened to him and conditioned his choice. Since they come from a very warped and dysfunctional society where marriages are usually farcical, it would have been good if they had married and showed everyone how a good marriage works, while their refusal to get married seems an attempt to appease those who doesn’t want always marriage and children as an epilogue to romantic books. So imo, it’s quite hard to be a romantic author and a radical woke follower, even if I’m a feminist and believer that a woman is more than a womb and a wife.In the end, I didn’t dislike the book, it was interesting and quite easy to read, but I found it bittersweet and not completely satisfying.Safety. Separated for 15 years. Both have been with op, the heroine had only ONS and the hero’s sex life hasn’t been great. He’s been celibate for months when the book starts, I don’t know if after he met the heroine again he’s been with his fiancee, the heroine was with nobody after seeing him again.