What the fuck did I just read?Like this is a joke, right?This book was so frustrating in so many different ways and degrees that I'm not sure how I'll be able to write a coherent review for this utter piece of shit. But I'll try.Let's start with the most glaring fault in this book imo: Erin Watt's writing is fucking trash. It's so bad that I'm convinced that's why she took on a pseudonym; it's because she doesn't want people she personally knows to realize that she, an adult, who probably passed basic high school level English, is so much of a bad writer that a middle-schooler could probably form more articulate and eloquent sentences than she can. It legit read like the Justin Bieber wattpad story my 13 year old cousin asked me to read so that she could get more views on her chapters.Now for the more specific faults:First of all,what the actual fuck was the plotin this novel, because I'm still confused? I get the premise in general: poor girl goes to live with rich man, rich man's children don't like her for no logical reason. Ok. Fair enough. But beyond that,what the hell happened???This was such a mess. It seemed like Watt brought forth notonelove triangle, buttwolove triangles in which 2/3 of the characters in both love triangles were the same. So it was like 2consecutivelove triangles? But that's not even what annoyed me most! What frustrated me to no fucking end was that this shitty author realized her love triangles were half assed after about 30 pages of developing them and so she nipped one in the bud, only to bring forthanotherlove triangle and do the same again because this bitch lacked the creativity to follow her ideas through, but also severely lacked in editors to tell her she should just cut that shit off from her book completely if she's not going to follow through with it. It was a fucking disaster.And aside from those shitty overall plot points, this book, being a contemporary or whatever, was sounrealistic. Like fucking hell, it deserves its own category of books called "Wishful thinking gone wrong" because this bitch was a pauper turned into the 21st century version of a "princess", out of nowhere?? Only because she's the illegitimate love child of a guy who never cared enough to meet her, not even once? And like seriously, who isactuallyable to control the actions and choices of their siblings and the whole student body the way that our main love interest does? you don't even see that shit done by jocks in 80-90's teen movies. I had such a hard time believing aspects of this book being real life events that could potentially occur that I started to laugh out loud--not because the book was funny like it's meant to be at times, but because of what a horrible life decision the author made when choosing to write this catastrophe. Seriously, Watt should donate all the proceeds of this book to the Hurricane Harvey cause only because it would be the only way to lower the calamity that is this wretched disaster.I'm writing this review furiously tapping on my keyboard because of how frustrated this book made me, and I'm actually worried I might need to make an appointment with the Apple Store today following this next part of the review because some letters will most likely be broken off from the sheer force and momentum of my anger punching through the keys while I write about the fucking piece of shit asshole that is supposed to be the love interest in this novel.Fucking Reed.Has there ever been a more vile love interest in a book series ever?I highly doubt it. Name me a single one and I'll pity you for going through a shitstorm worse than this douche.I get that this was supposed to be a hate-to-love relationship. That's fucking fine; in fact, they're my favorite type of contemporaries/NA/smutty reads. But there's a way to do itrightand this was on the complete opposite spectrum of that way.Especially in the beginning, every time Reed talked, I wanted to gouge my eyes out. He was adreadfulhuman being. We're first introduced to him barging in to Ella's room--after she explicitly told him not to because she's not decent--because he "doesn'tcare". WTF. NO SERIOUSLY WTF. WHAT THE ACTUAL FUCK???????????????????? And he only gets worse! That's the worst part! He slut-shames her constantly, and puts her down, and makes her feel unwelcomed at the school and at her new home, andblamesher for being a gold-digger and sleeping with his dad (when she's not??? and he has no proof to go by that she's doing this???), and bullies her and makes his brothers andthe whole student bodybully her, and orders her around, and she's still down for him??? We're still supposed to root for them??? We're meant to like this metaphorical human garbage of a person???? Fuck that shit. That's fucked up.And as an encore for his ultimate douchebaggery, ponder on this:Ella, our protagonist, has been drugged at a party with Molly and cocaine and God knows what else so that this rando guy she's kinda/sorta/not really seeing could take advantage of her becauseduh,she's a slut (and who perpetuated that fucking label on her in the first place anyway?? If you guessed the epitome of the piece of shit emoji but with a sad face instead of a smiley one, Reed, then you guessed right!). Predictably, our not-so-beloved Reed, saves the day. Hurray! You've done something right! But then, WHAT DOES THIS BITCH ASS BOY HAVE THE AUDACITY TO DO??!?!?!? Ella, being high and all, feels horny, and she has this unexplainable crush on Reed and wants to do shit with him. And so she tells him. Sanely, Reed tells her no, she's not in her right mind, she's fucked up right now. And he's right, she is, she's fucking drugged and has just been through the traumatic experience of almost getting raped. BUT THEN SOMEHOW THEY STILL DO SHIT???? AND THEN THIS FUCKING VILE SPECIMEN OKAYS HIS BEHAVIOUR BECAUSEHE'STHE ONE GIVING THE ORAL SEX? AND THEN HE HAS THE FUCKINGNERVETO ASK HER THE FOLLOWING DAY WHETHER WHAT HE DID WAS OKAY AND WAS IT CONSENSUAL, WHEN THIS WHOLE TIME, THIS WHOOOOOLE TIME GUYS, HE KNEW WHAT HE WAS DOING WAS SKETCHY BUT IGNORED IT (LIKE HE REPEATEDLY MENTIONS THIS)? Fuck youuuuuuuuuu. Fuck you very much.Like fuck. You can't make this shit up.Reed kind of redeems himself towards the end and suddenly becomes a semi-good guy, but horrendously enough, even then, he'sinsufferable. The piece of shit is more undecided on whether he should act on his feelings and attractions towards Ella than on how undecided I get on whether I should wear one black t-shirt over another black t-shirt to school on any given day.Actual summary of the last 100 pages of this book:Reed:*hooking up with Ella* This is the last time we're doing this. We can't be doing this because of hugely invalid reason that makes no sense.- next night -Reed:*hooking up with Ella* This is the last time.- next night -Reed:Ok but seriously this one is the last time I solemnly swear- five centuries later -Reed:*plays Taylor Swift's Last Time but doesn't mean it*Literally his attitude towards hooking up with Ella is a direct parallel to how I act when I'm thinking of going to the gym [Ok I'll work out tomorrow!I've been saying every day unconvincingly for the past 7 years.]Also this is minimal but at one point he starts out of nowhere calling her 'baby' which is uncalled for because at this point, they still haven't done anything with each other and are not together, and that pet name already makes me cringe when used by a guy so I just felt like barfing at that point and was seriously tempted to go and get some Gravol for myself. And I'm still confused as to what caused him to start actuallylikingElla? Because absolutely nothing drastic changes in their circumstances for him to suddenly start liking her? It's hella dumb.um what else??? this book is such a huge display of fuckery that I actually have to think about what all the bad things are because the list is impossibly endless.oh YeAH fucking Ella. I'm going to ignore the fact that Ella's into Reed because if you want to be treated like you're the scum of the earth and get turned on by that, even though you yourself literallyacknowledgedthat said person treats you as if you are no better than a fucking spider not paying the rent in a human household, than that's your prerogative.But her characterization? My g0D.You're telling me that this person has experienced abandonment from their biological father, the loss of a mother to cancer at a young age, extreme poverty, abuse and harrassment from her mother's various boyfriends, an underage career as a stripper, social isolation, harassment from her peers and the people fucking living with her, potential rape, and yet, she hasno issueswhatsoever? You're telling me she doesn't suffer from any form of PTSD, that she doesn't suffer from an other mental disorder, that she doesn't partake in any form of high-risk behaviour or has any social development issues, when this is unfortunately and tragically the reality of most people who suffer from at least one of those similar traumatic life events? Like there's being resilient, and then there's this. Which is basically, a "let's throw a bunch of shit at our MC to give the impression that she's three-dimensional and has a tragic backstory but fail to explore any of those harmful or triggering themes bcuz I'm not down and a douchebag is being his regular-ol'-douchebaggery-self-to-me-and-it's-getting-me-hot-and-bothered" mindset.Also to make things even worse (like how is that even possible at this point??? if you've reached this far into the review i seriously applaud you), there's a shitton of girl-on-girl hate and slut-shaming and ISN'T THAT JUST THEBEST? :) :) :) :)fucking die. fuck you.Also, somehow, this book, that is written by awoman, sexualises typical women behaviour and perpetuates the idea that girl-on-girl-anything = erotic for boys so you should do it for that sole reason. physically fighting with a girl? sexy. dancing up on a girl? sexy. (which don't get me wrong, you should dance with your girlfriends however you please, butyou shouldn't do it for a guy ogling at you and dehumanizing you). Also they were dancing in cages to get the attention from boys and tookpridein it???? Like that is the literal definition of oppression being a direct result of the objectification of women?How was it a woman that wrote this anti-feminist bullshit of a manifesto?I don't know what else to say except to repeat myself yet again on the fact that this was shit.OH. And there's a cliffhanger at the end which basically just reinforces the fact that these shitty characters are shitty people and this cliffhanger is essentially there to try to convince you to not listen to your instincts that tell you to RUN AWAY FROM THIS SEQUEL because cliffhanger guise omg!!111!1.Like honestly can someone who actually liked this book or didn't but dared to read the rest tell me what happens because I'm not spending more of my valuable money or time on this?Overall sentiments regarding this book: I wanted to throw away this book across the room so many times but I couldn't because I read it on my Kindle and that made me sad because this book deserves destruction and I hope that one day future me will be able to suppress the traumatizing memory of having read this treachery to English literature.