1 star. DNF @44%. Review completed July 5, 2015Let's face it, whereas the cover isn't too shabby either, that title alone garnered the author tremendous attention. Like many other readers I was intrigued and eagerly added the book to my to-read shelf. I enjoyedMark of Cainvery much which revolves around a priest whose brother got accidentally killed (it was deemed manslaughter) by a man who, after having been incarcerated for a few years, comes home reformed yet still in search of atonement. Needless to say that these two men fell for each other eventually. Whether this was realistic or not I can't answer. Yet my point is, Mark of Cain provided a careful build-up, a great plot and three-dimensional characters whose struggles were tangible. There was no "I want to put my dick in your mouth" at 5% to be found. Also, that specific priest didn't spew filthy language all the time and the engaging plot hadn't been overshadowed by constant sordid sex.Priest, however, was lacking on every possible level. Trivial and immature characters who were driven by outer appearances and their hunger for filthy sex dampened my excitement stat. Itwasphysical and the meager and incredibly purplish attempts at coming off somewhat spiritual were choked off time and again by Tyler's annoying and ludicrous inner monologue. Seriously, he acted as he saw fit. Unfortunately he didn't do his profession justice. Also, his reason for becoming a priest(his dead sister who was sexually abused by a priest),was not good enough for me. Prior to becoming a priest, it goes without saying that he fucked around like crazy. Although once he decided to slip on his clerical clothing, he seemed determined to uphold his vows and care for his little lambs. Yeah, maybe when pigs fly. Well, and then out of the blue struts slutty Poppy to the confessional and the bubble popped. Pardon my little pun. Seriously.The so-called taboo aspect, the forbidden "love story" *feels an urge to gag* didn't do it for me at all. Instead of easing the reader into the story and trying to build something worthwhile while at the same time trying to make me believe in Tyler's inner struggles(what struggles??),I've had to deal with the mental image of Tyler's naughty dick practically right off the bat. As a romance and erotica reader, I'm used to being confronted with sex scenes and I do appreciate hot smexin' like anyone else. However, when the constant horniness, theidioticmain characters and the sex itself strangle the barely there story I.Am.So.Done.Readers claiming that the smut was hot is their right but I digress. I didn't even like the smut and what will be perceived as hot and erotic by some readers doesn't necessarily mean the same for another reader. After all, reading is a personal experience and everyone's opinion is bound to be subjective.By the way, mentioning numerous times how intelligent and educated Poppy is is a real disgrace for the female population in general. Also, an authorwritingthat a heroine is educated doesn't necessarily mean that she will come off as smart. My point is, you need to make me believe that she's intelligent by letting her act accordingly.Oh well, considering her being a total slut, she actedaccordingly,all right. I think you know what I mean. After all, I wouldn't want to offendyourintelligence.A friend asked me about Tyler's inner struggle. I responded by saying…Around the 5% mark he was ready to put his dick in her mouth. I wouldn't call that struggling at all.But while I was thinking all of this, he was unzipping himself, and he was so hard, so mouthwateringly hard, and I couldn't help it--I knew he was married, I knew he was an asshole, but it had been so long, too long, and I had loved him once…Are you judging me right now, Father Bell?Fuck yes. I am judging you, youmanipulativeslut. Despite your alleged stellar background, grand education, a wealthy family that provided you with everything and the best chances for a prosperous future, you threw all that away to work as astripperand now you're babbling a fuckton of rubbish about being fulfilled and happy and wanting a good life and romance and passion. But.You.Act.Like.A.Filthy.Whore."I let myself come," she said finally, in a quiet, sad voice. "He is a married man and he cheated on me for years and he wasn't even sorry, but I still not only fucked him, but I came. I came twice. What does it matter that I made him leave right after it happened? What kind of girl still does that?What.The.Hell? Poppy is a dumb slut with a brain the size of a pea. Blech.And the hero is a horny idiot. His clerical clothing is the only thing that would mark him as a priest. His vocation is to think about his constant hard-ons, ogling that slutty heroine and…well…fucking.Given the fact that the book is titled Priest, I at least expected some kind of controversy.I mean this is fiction but there are actually enough priests who break their vows in real life. This being said, I would have loved to read about something deeper and thought-provoking.Something that went beyond the all-consuming lust.Fact is, Priest fell totally flat in that regard.Because who wouldn't love this gorgeous creature? This over-educated, over-sexed woman who oozed intelligence and sensuality? This woman of white skin and red lips and a brain built for running financial empires?*gag*I hope she would have been built for running financial empires too in case her skin had been dark.(…) her full body weight pressing against my cock, it was such a close approximation to the real thing, maybe too close, but it still wasn't technically sex, I lied to myself, maybe it wouldn't count, maybe I wasn't sinning.But even if I was, holy fuck, I was not stopping.Yeah, and going down on her wasn't sex either. Semantics.Shit, this woman was filthy. And perfect. And it was pure instinct that made me grab her hips and work her harder and faster over me, my mind filled with the sight of her straddling me and her pale pink clitoris, still plump and needy, and the memory of her taste and smell on my mouth and face, and then it flooded through me--no, it burned and chewed through me, and she let out a low moan at the sight of my come spurting onto my stomach. There was so much, and it felt like hours instead of seconds that I was suspended in pulsing, total body-release.Wow.And at that moment--at the peak of my high, at the peak of her greedy triumph--our eyes locked and we surged past every barrier--stranger and stranger, priest and penitent, Tyler and Poppy. We were simply male and female, as God had made us, Adam and Eve, in the most elemental and fundamental form. We were biology, we were creation incarnate, and I saw the moment she felt it too--that we were fused somehow. Irrevocably and undeniably fused together into something singular and whole.Holy eff. That's so cheesy and terribly bad it made me cringe. I actually had a good laugh too.Does this cartoon character of a priest really think that saying "I'm sorry" again and again would be enough to do some kind of penance or to justify his actions?"I'm sorry," I whispered one last time, the word hanging in the air like a star hangs in the sky--glimmering, precious, illuminating. And then it winked out of existence, at the same moment I felt my burden of sorrow and shame wink out of existence.There was a beat of perfect completeness, a moment where I felt as if I could pluck each and every atom out of the air, where magic and God and something sweetly beyond complete understanding was real, completely real.You don't say. Greetings from Sugarville. In my book, that's very bad purple prose.I could do this. There was life after fucking up, after all, even for those who lived without fucking.I can't even.Or this…But I'm glad because it means that you understand why it can't happen again. I have a vow to uphold, to honor God by honoring his children, his lambs. You came to me for help and instead I--" I stopped, unable to utter the words. But the heat rushed to my groin anyway, as words from that one afternoon shot through my mind like bullets through ballistic gel. Cunt. Clit. Cock. Come.Baba: Cunt. Came. To. Cock.*snort*And less than one minute later…"Don't worry. I won't bother you with my body again. I'll respect your vow and your outdated chivalry along with it."That stung. That stung like hell, actually, because I had just been trying to summon up all of my postmodern, feminist ally thoughts, trying to squash down the part of my brain that fantasized about making her crawl naked across my floor with a cup of single-malt balanced on her back.And he pulled her between his legs and sucked on her nipple."I shouldn't put you over my lap and spank your ass for being a brazen little slut and coming here without a bra," I growled in her ear. "I shouldn't twist ropes around your wrists and ankles until your cunt is exposed and then screw you until you can't walk anymore. I shouldn't flip you over and fuck your ass until your eyes water. I shouldn't drive you down to the strip club and fuck you in the back room, so that you'll forget all about Sterling and the only name you'll remember to say is mine." I lightly bit her nipple again. "Or God's."I guess I don't have to tell you what happened next. Yeah, it's sooooo damn hard to uphold a vow.When he kissed her hard, he called that an act of God and he said"I want to be inside you," (…) "Just a little. Just to feel it."Again, semantics.Not being balls-deep in her cunt doesn't make it any less wrong.And get this. He's ready to kill because…It was a sensation so base and primal, so delicious, that I would have killed to feel it, I would kill somebody right now if it meant I could have my dick inside this woman again.God, I needed to pump.Needed to thrust.Needed to fuck.God.I need to wave the white flag.Why would God bring Poppy here if I wasn't supposed to fall in love with her?He's bending his inner monologue to his liking at any given moment. It boggles the freakin' mind.The f-bombingHe's a priest for f@@@'s sake!252 x fuck, fucking, fuckedIn this sense…To sum this book up insexsix little words:A ludicrous pile of horny rubbish.I'm also pretty sure that many Catholics or religious people in general would perceive this "gem" as highly offensive.It wasn't necessary to read the entire book because at my request a good friend filled me in on what happened during the rest of the story.Also, I'm not religious at all but the abuse of sacred liturgical items during sex is something I wouldn't have approved of. So I'm glad I quit.I said it in my final update and I will gladly repeat it. If sex-crazed Tyler is supposed to be a priest, then I'm the President of the United States of America.#sorrynotsorryatallMovin' on…*****************************************Pre-reading Priest...Curiosity killed the cat..or some such. I hope I won't regret it.