2.75 stars ✧oof this was painful.i have a love/hate relationship with second chance romance mainly because they have tropes i absolutely hate where H is content with his life without the h, while h suffers and pines over H ← that's usually the case 99.9% of the time. but also, i like torturing myself and making myself suffer through the pain and angst. why do i keep doing this to myself you ask?well...i don't know. when someone tells me to do something, i do the opposite. it is what it iss. and by the way, this review is going to be filled withS P O I L E R Sso be warned, folks!so this is about Ezra and Kimba's story. they were childhood best friends and had their first kiss the same night Ezra left Kimba when they were only 13 years old. get this,24 YEARSgoes by and both have moved on and quite frankly, at least in my perspective, kind of forgot about each other."It doesn't feel funny to me. It feels tragic that the person I thought I'd know all my life is now a veritable stranger. Someone whose sentences I used to be able to finish. The few secrets I had at that age, Kimba kept. Now I don't know her at all."24 years is a long ass time. that's my whole life plus 2 years!! that's a lot.and in those years, both have moved on with others. Kimba had a lot of hookups and no-strings attached relationships, while Ezra had a 10-year relationship with Aiko and has a kid with her."They are a family. Aiko is not just some girl he found on Tinder and then decided it's quits. He hasn't been with anyone but her for ten years, and they have a son together. Things happened fast and things just happened. It ain't over 'til it's over, and if anyone gets hurt when things go south, it'll be you."and boy did it hurt. thankfully, the OW drama wasn't too painful when Ezra and Kimba reunited because the first scene of Ezra at the beginning of part 2 was him breaking things off with Aiko. oh, and they were never married by the way. they were having problems for a long time and he even admitted that they were together for that long because of their child.anyways, everything was going so well and the romance between them was fast but nonetheless passionate. i love how the writing clearly, and powerfully conveys how much they passionately love and miss one another. everything was all fine and dandy but then...IT CAME OUT OF NOWHERE. it literally hit me in the face like a wrecking ball tf???Aiko comes home and let's us know that she is pregnant with Ezra's baby!!! now, knowing this and the fact that Kimba also has perimenopause is justpainful. can you imagine finally having the love of your life back in your life but then you have to watch them be a family with another woman, knowing that you may not have that?? it. is. PAINFUL."Will wanting him mean accepting something I know formeis wholly unacceptable?"not only this but they were literally having sex at his and OWs place with all their family pictures plastered on the wall, rubbing the fact that they've done a lot in Kimba's face.honestly, im glad that Ezra was fighting for Kimba and was literally begging her to give him a chance but he was lowkey selfish. couldn't he understand how painful this was for Kimba?? and this drama was justunnecessaryin my humble opinion. it just felt...wrong. i know love is painful and not all rainbows and unicorns but damn.also, with how innocent and passionate their childhood love was, im actually very surprised thatBOTH of them didn't try to find each other and it took them 20+ years to reunite. i know they separated in the late 90s but heeellooooo. what happened when Facebook was created?? and obviously with my neurotic obsessive behavior, if i calculated it right, he wasn't with Aiko when Facebook was created sooo... im just saying.after that little bomb dropped, they separated for 1.5 years and got together pretty quickly after that. both were not with other people.but overall, this just made me so sad for Kimba. i know heroine had a lot of sexual partners throughout the years buti wish she actually fell in love with another person too. equality and all that. but nope. she actually had to "force herself to like someone and fuck them".i don't know what's more painful,↳ H being a ho or↳ H falling in love with OW and having a kid with them.i honestly don't. but the same thing always happens, h always suffers and has to go through the most pain. this is why second chance romance are a double-edged sword for me.anyways, all these things i did not like aside, i like Ezra and Kimba as a character. they're both quite literally, career goals and that's coming from me, a criminology student. BUT although i didn't like this because of personal preferences doesn't mean that this was bad. this was actually really good! the writing was great especially when it comes to the MCs passionate love for one another and the angst was good but yeah... that little drama at the end was anofor me. also, im a moody reader so if i was in a different mood while reading this, i probably would have rated it higher but for now, i'll stick with this one.AND,the diversity and representation in this is impeccable. i loved learning about the different cultures represented here and you could really tell ms. Kennedy did her research. i really appreciate that like YES bishhh. flavors!! so many flavors *chef's kiss*also, i just wanna say that i have a girl crush on the book cover model. like girl who are YOU cuz you gorgeous ✨