You can check out our interview with S.C. Stephens, Kiera, Kellan and the rest of the D-Bags here :http://totallybookedblog.com/2013/03/...Jenny: 5+++++++++ Amazing. Loved it. Didn’t want it to end…starsGitte: 5 StarsJenny:Where to begin? To say the Thoughtless series and Kellan Kyle are one of my most favourite things, would be a gross understatement. I can’t begin to describe what these books mean to me. I love them with all my heart and they will always have a special place in my life. Reading this was a mixture of excitement to see the next chapter in Kellan and Kiera’s story, tinged with sadness that the series was coming to an end.I wasn’t ready to say goodbye to these characters in Effortless and I’m even less thank ready to say goodbye to them after Reckless. I loved this book. This book had it all. I cried with sadness. I cried with happiness. I laughed with the characters and indeed I loved, without exception with the characters. It’s all there. The passion, the emotion, the humour, the warmth, the drama and the romance, all tied up with some of the most beautiful and engaging characters and…..of course – we get to spend more time with KELLAN KYLE………huge sigh here!Reckless picks up where Effortless left off. Although the heart of this book is Kellan and Kiera’s love story and they still have issues to sort out – the biggest issue they’ve had from day one, being trust. Their relationship was built on lies and deceit so to overcome this was always going to take more than love. They had to learn to trust. After all, love isn’t enough if you don’t have trust. I felt this book wasn’t as much about Kellan as it was Kiera, although he is a large part of the story. For me, this was Kiera’s book. It was her journey, her story and it showed the growth of her character and I defy anyone NOT to LOVE Kiera in this book. This girl has been through the paces and she has absolutely grown into her own woman.“Am I making a mistake?” “All I want is a quiet life with you”.“Kellan, your life will never be quiet, no matter what you do”. “You belong on a stage. It’s what you were born to do”Gitte:I feel so emotional writing this review. If I am honest my heart hurts, there’s an ache that I can’t get rid of. Knowing that this is the end, that it is time to say goodbye…well it hurts.I met Kellan and Kiera a lot later than you Jenny but despite my journey with them only having lasted a year or so they are a big part of why I love to read and they will always have a piece of my heart. I have to say that this part of their journey had absolutely everything, it was emotional to the point of tears yes, but it was also hopeful and it was inspirational. I cried with them and I laughed with them.Personally, for me Jenny I have not been a huge fan of Kiera all the way through this series. In Thoughtless, I wasn’t too sure of her; her actions and her reasoning. In Effortless I felt she showed herself maturing and acknowledging her past actions. However, in Reckless it is almost as if she came full circle and I have to agree, more than anyone this was Kiera’s journey.Jenny:Absolutely Gitte, and I think a lot of people felt that way about Kiera. I know she rubbed a lot of readers up the wrong way, but I always felt that I got her. I think I’m her biggest cheerleaderS.C. Stephens did a beautiful job with this book. She couldn’t have given us a better story if she tried.I just adored Kiera in Reckless. Kiera’s character has seemed to evolve. I have loved watching her come into her own and when you read all three books you really do see the growth and strength of this character throughout the series, culminating in a very different Kiera in Reckless. Kiera always felt unworthy of Kellan, unworthy of his love. To see her grow and come to the realisation that she is important, that she is worthy was beautiful to watch.We’re taken through the ups and downs of dealing with Kellan’s success and what part Kiera will play in Kellan’s life. Standing by him, supporting him, dealing with the fans, groupies and the all the other pitfalls that come with stardom. Yet at the same time she must learn to trust Kellan and remain her own person and not lose sight of who she is along the way. Kellan also has to juggle his relationship and his rise to fame and at times feels that he is powerless to have both.Gitte:Absolutely Jenny, I have to say that Reckless in my opinion was flawless and I literally inhaled every single word.As I mentioned earlier, no doubt about it…Kiera has matured so much from the first time we met her. It is not only her self-confidence that has grown; it is also the value she places upon herself, her place in the world and the full acceptance of Kellan’s love and affections.Jenny:Oh there is so much I want to say, so much I want to discuss, but I really don’t want to ruin this experience for anyone and hope that all readers can experience this wonderful book the way I did.I have to give a special mention to Griffin and Anna. Honestly, the scenes with these two had me grinning from ear to ear. Griffin is still his obnoxious, humerous self and still trying to get under Kiera’s skin.“Did you just fuck him into submission?”…. “Nice”(Griff to Kiera)These guys are all family though, and never is that more apparent or felt than in this book. I absolutely loved seeing them interact and all the different personalities lent so much to this book. I can’t believe I’m saying this, but at one point even Griffin made me tear up.Kellan Kyle….what can I say? He of the j.f’d hair and impossible good looks……..he is to die for! That man really is perfection. Kellan and I go way back and my love for him has been unwavering and I think he’ll continue to be one of my fave book boyfriends for a long time to come. In Reckless we are treated to romantic, hot, protective, funny, gorgeous, sensual and at times, conflicted Kellan. It is he who sometimes needs reassurance from Kiera.“I will always love you, Kellan. Your heart is safe with me.”We have the little “Kellan quirks” as I call them, that SC introduces in her books. The little things that make Kellan Kyle so special, and sigh…..let me tell you readers you are in for a real treat with this particular romantic quirk. If you think you loved him in Thoughtless and Effortless be prepared to fall in love with him all over again times 100! The romantic times will steal your heart, the emotional times will break your heart, there will be times you will be clutching your heart, and times you will be holding your breath, there will be times you will sob tears of happiness and tears of sadness, and I am of no doubt, the love between Kellan and Kiera will make your heart soar.“ You’ll never know how incredible you are to me, how desperately I love you. I would do it all over again if I needed to. I’d go back to the beginning for you”Going into this book I had no idea where this story was going to take me. I did know one thing for sure. I knew I was going to read, devour and love this book because the characters have become such a special part of my life and S.C Stephens has a true talent for making you feel every bit of emotion in a scene. Her storytelling is masterful and I just love every word this author writes. She writes from the heart and boy it shows!What I didn’t realise going in to this story was the depth of the experience I was going to have with this book. It was perfection. I sobbed many a times throughout and already miss these characters with all my heart. If I could have had a wishlist of everything I wanted in Reckless, this would have pretty much been it, even if, at times, I could have throttled my kindle! The story left me completely satisfied.This book will steal your heart. The characters will touch your soul and, if you're a fan like me, you will be bereft when you come to the end because I don’t think any of us are ready to say goodbye to these characters who have become so much a part of us.“Instead I grabbed Kellan’s hand and kissed his fingers, letting him know I was his, bound in his soul”“Kellan gave me a smile that was loose and easy. He understood”Reckless did indeed complete me. These characters made me laugh, these characters made me cry and these characters made me love, with all my heart I love them. This last chapter in the Kellan and Kiera’s story did not disappoint one bit. If anything, it exceeded my expectations.“He gave me a smirk when he realised what I’d ordered for him……a Denver Omelete”The story is over though and I must admit I feel at a bit of a loss. I will miss these books that became my reason for reading. We have a history these books and I and they will always have that special place in my heart.Gitte:I had to laugh here…yeah Kellan Kyle. I don’t think there is anyone more qualified to discuss this fine specimen of a man than you Jenny. We all know how much you love and adore him. He is though, without a doubt, one of the most gorgeous ‘rock star’ characters out there. He will always have a special place in the hearts of any reader who loved this series. Kellan and Kiera are synonymous with one of the greatest love stories out there.For me though, and I am not sure whether I need to whisper this or not…it has always been Griffin. He has had me laughing, shouting, cringing and fan-girling through it all.So, absolutely, the end of Kellan and Kiera’s journey should not be spoilt for any reader out there. It is absolutely one that should be experienced with fresh eyes and a pounding heart….I will say that the pounding heart takes you through the last leg of their journey with a multitude of emotions, so extreme so intense right till you hit that last page when a tear will inevitably fall and your heart will ache…because this is it……This is the end……