Maybe a 3.5. I am a little undecided. I really liked the story. Yes, I really liked that they were celibate while apart. I loved the love they had for each other still at such a young age. I loved it when they got back together, and the story hooked me from beginning to end while making me mad, sad, happy, annoyed, and angsty, which is what you want in a book. I also read it super-fast because I could not put it down.The timeline is all over, and I find that highly annoying. No one has been pregnant for 13 months. She had the baby right before her 18th birthday and she’s 20/he’s turning 21 when he comes back so the baby would almost be two years old, not just under a year (and is barely able to crawl?) There are also weird misspellings like her back hurts after a shit (shift). I’ve also never met anyone going into freshman year of high school at 13 but she graduates a year early at 17, so she was in high school 4 years but graduated a year early, so in 3 years she aged 4 years? They are also apart 2 years but both aged 3 years. Things like that are super frustrating to me.Okay, Rose and Noah meet on the first day of school. In a slightly different twist, she’s a rich girl whose Daddy almost never buys his kids anything because he wants them to grow up to work hard and not be spoiled. But it's more like borderline neglect. Her mother passed away but was from the “wrong side” of the tracks, and by that, the author means a trailer park and wanted her kids to be strong people. She’s quiet and nerdy (although beautiful), so she is bullied a lot by scholarship girls (ones the OW) from the trailer park. Yeah.. they go to a private school where the rich kids are bullied. Her older brother, his friends, his girlfriend, and now Noah (the brother’s girlfriends’ cousin) and his friends all watch out for her at school.Noah has a rich aunt who pays for his and his sister’s private school, but he’s from the trailer park with a alcoholic mother and a really kind stepfather. His little sister and him are extremely close until she starts high school when she becomes a crazy psycho mean girl and friends with the OW- also a psycho mean girl obsessed with Noah.Noah and Rose fall in love fast in typical teenage fashion. She is 13, and he is 14. They do everything together. Walk together, walk home, study after school, are in all the same classes, she watches his band play, etc. They are together four years. They are each other’s first on prom night (yes, they waited), and Noah asks her dad’s permission to marry her. Noah also has her initial R tattoed on him in the shape of a music note and her name written down the side of his ring finger. Rose surprises Noah on graduation night (to which he thinks she didn’t show up) and turns out to be the valedictorian of HIS class and is graduating a year early in order to be with him.In a turn of spectacular soap opera dramatics, on graduation day, Rose goes to pick up a gift for Noah, his dream motorcycle she has saved up for 4 years to buy. Noah also gets a call from a record company wanting to sign his band, but he has to get to LA. He goes to pack up then go to Rose when the the OW (Piper who is also Rose’s bully) and his little sister, Gina tell him Rose has been cheating on him with a older man. He doesn’t believe them until they show him a photo of Rose HUGGING an older man. HUGGING PEOPLE. (Turns out it's the man she bought the motorcycle from - who hugged her because she paid him more to help with his disabled daughters surgery).Noah immediately storms out of the house, hops on a bus to LA, and blocks Rose. He tells his best friends to block her. Rose, meanwhile, has fainted at her house and is taken to the hospital by her dad, where she finds out she’s pregnant. Her dad, in all fury and righteousness, tells her that if she does not get an abortion, she’s going to be homeless and disowned. (Her mom died from Preeclampsia, so later it's chalked up to grief/fear.) She chooses the baby.She rides the motorcycle over to Noah’s with a duffel bag of clothes, and his mom greets her at the door, telling her he left and thinks she cheated on him. Rose is heartbroken and tells his mom the truth (she didn’t cheat), and she’s pregnant. They BOTH try to get a hold of Noah repeatedly. (This isn't a secret baby trope- Rose literally tries to tell Noah, his best friends, his road manager, and his mom tries to tell him she's pregnant multiple, multiple times). Rose hops on her bike and flees town. She ends up a few hours away at the first place that is hiring a pregnant teenager.A week later, her brother tries to find out where she is and meets her at a café halfway between their hometown and where she ran away. When she shows up, her “super protective” older brother and his girlfriend (who adored her) both call her a lying whore, tell her she’s dead to them and the girlfriend slaps Rose across the face. She flees again. We find out they get married without her and ban her from another friends funeral years later.Time hop. One year later, Noah is a superstar. An alcoholic mega rock star. He still misses Rose, but he hates her. He wants her, but he can’t bring himself to even hear her name. If anyone, including his own mother, tries to say anything about her, he spirals or hangs up or walks out of the room. His little sister Gina calls him to tell him she “just saw” Rose a few hours away pregnant with another man’s baby. He believes her and spirals again. We also learn he drank so much that he almost died about 5 months after he left. It's reiterated that he's super rich, famous and writes almost all the band’s songs which about A. Either loving Rose or B. What a lying cheating woman she is.Time hop. Two years later, Rose is a single mom working two jobs with an infant and trying to do online schooling part-time towards a degree she hates but will be stable for her baby. She has no family. No friends, but for one waitress and a guy that she works with, that hits on her all the time. She lives in a shitty apartment with a mattress on the floor and the same clothes she wore two years ago in high school. While poor, she devotes herself to her son, and all her paychecks go towards him, school or bills. She’s a great mother.Her dad regretting tossing his daughter out has hired a PI to find her and is trying to be in his grandson’s life. He feels guilty he basically told her to abort the kid or else. She’s back in her hometown visiting for the first time since she left, and Noah is home during a brief tour break. He sees her, and she walks right by him. He gets angry at her (for being a cheating liar) and follows her while she flees back home. He, of course, sees the baby and thinks it’s someone else’s then realizes it’s his baby and he’s missed everything. She doesn’t even have a car, she rides the motorcycle SHE bought him then when she has the baby, she walks the bike home with the baby strapped on it. (Oh, he lashes out and accuses her of it being her boyfriends bike).Now here’s where it gets hard for me. I keep reading reviews that say once everyone realizes what a colossal fuck up the last two years are, everyone grovels. They lose me there. They apologize, yes. But grovel?Noah - what grovel? He essentially shows up and never really leaves her again. He *almost* acts like the last two years never happened and is determined to marry her and be with her forever like they always planned. We SEE his guilt. We FEEL his guilt, but there is no major grovel. Just him being there every day, picking up his son, and being a great father. They eventually sleep together again, so it’s lots of just showing her he loves her and always has. He has a TON of new rose tattoos all over his body, so clearly, he was obsessed with her while they were apart, which is cute and heartbreaking. We also learn he never slept with anyone else (but you don't learn that till almost the end), and any women in magazines/gossip rags were the label doing promotional stunts. He did touch other women but like draped his arm on them, hugged them, put his hand around their waist, one licked his neck (OW), and one kissed him without permission. Nothing sexual even if it looked that way for years. He also bought the house they always wanted but not FOR her. It was when they weren't even together, and he let his nasty mean sister and OW in the house, so it's tainted anyway.Her brother, her father, and her brother’s girlfriend? Again, not really. Her dad just shows up one day and essentially will not leave her alone. If anything, they all bully their way back into her life even when she tells them to respect her boundaries or she walks away. Like she tells her dad not to invite her brother over, so he does. She tells him not to tell Noah where she lives. He does. Her brother apologizes a lot, but at the end of the day, she really lets them back into her life so her son has his grandfather and uncle.The ONLY one who gets comeuppance is the brother’s girlfriend/wife but it’s more because we find out she was a cheating whore bag so the brother dumps her and divorces her.Any of their friends? At the risk of repeating myself, they FEEL remorseful and guilty but mostly they just joke, laugh, hug her and tease her like the last few years never happened and aside from a few snarky remarks she just lets them. (Don't get me wrong the side characters were fun and very sweet to the baby).His little sister? Who lied about her cheating, lied about her being pregnant with another man’s baby, who sent Rose photos of the OW in Noah’s bed naked (he was passed out drunk/clothed), then pays another woman to kiss Noah in front of Rose and generally caused chaos for YEARS? One day she just up and realizes she was lied to for the last 6 years by the other woman and they’re all happy with each other after that. The fuck?!As you guessed it, Noah and Rose in the epilogue are blissfully happy together. In 10 years, they’ve had something like 5 kids, he’s still a famous rock-star, his first son plays drums like an adult and Rose has her dream job but also tours with Noah and raises 5 kids.To reiterate, NOT A BAD BOOK. I liked it. It kept me hooked. I liked that both people could not bring themselves to sleep with other people even if it was tempting (mostly Noah). I liked that Noah shut down the OW hard each time but maybe not hard enough. This OW was in his life all throughout high school then followed the band on tour, then became part of their management team and it’s like why? Simply for the sake of drama? Seems like a restraining order would have been necessary in the real world.Their ages made it more believable because Noah was highly immature for leaving the way he does. But it also makes you think what happens when more hurdles get thrown their way? 🤔 Noah, at the end, says he never *really* believed Rose cheated on him he just wanted to believe that because he wasn’t good enough for which is also like reallllly!? So the love of your life for 4 years wasn’t worth a single conversation, but you could become a world wide known rockstar with millions of dollars based on songs all about her?Even for fictional characters, though, I believed Rose and Noah were soulmates, and that’s why I rated it like I did. It's an addicting read.