Rogue's Reckoning (Saint's Outlaws MC: Boston Chapter Book 1) by Brooke Summers.This is a dark MC story set in the SOMC world is an opposites attract, second chance, secret baby, age gap romance between Ezra aka Rogue and Willow Bennett. What happens when instant attraction between a couple ends up possibly ruining both their lives. This is a tale of betrayal and revenge when their love is pushed to its limits and loyalty is tested. An angst filled drama which is heartbreaking and tragic but also violent and traumatic so read the trigger warnings. Can love survive when the MC enemies are out to get you.The love story actually starts five years ago when Rogue the loyal and reliable enforcer for the Saint’s Outlaws is stunned one night by a beautiful but innocent looking woman. A shy glance from her and he’s intrigued. The Outlaws is the only family he’s had for years and he loves the thrilling MC lifestyle but feels something is missing. Ghost his best friend and VP warns him girls like her don’t belong in their world as far too dangerous. She leaves her notebook behind and this sets off a series of events that change everything and turns his life upside down. The MC are having terrible problems with a rival club, the Shadow Hawks. Storm their prez has intel that Willow may be linked to them and wants Rogue to continue seeing her to gain more information.Willow is only nineteen, sweet and kind. All her life she has done the right thing even though her parents dote on her twin sister. The mysterious looking guy caught her attention and although he radiates danger she feels an unexpected connection with him. She’s never dated but never been so sure of anything in her life when spends the night with him. She knows he hiding something but sees beneath his tough exterior.Rogue knows she is the woman of his dreams but is conflicted over his feelings for her and his duty to the club. This comes to a head when there is evidence she has betrayed him to their enemy. The events that follow are heart-wrenching, affecting both of them severely. Rogue betrays her when she needed him the most so she leaves never telling him her secret. Luckily she meet Natalia who helps her and becomes her best friend. Although Boston holds bad memories for her, she returns five years later and this leads to Rogue finding out about Wren, their daughter.Disappointed as I felt there were holes in the plot and it was repetitive in places so I started losing interest. Unfortunately it wasn't as good as the other books I've read in the SOMC world.I didn’t understand why Willow returned to Boston as she still traumatised by the events.Will she ever forgive Rogue? Should he get his redemption? He has changed and still feels guilty at putting his loyalty to the club before the woman he loved. Can he earn her trust back and be a father to his daughter. Can he protect his family when danger threatens them again?A sweet ending for this couple after all they have been through.