KU*3.5 starsThis was a pretty quick read for me. I’m not sure if this is a spin-off series, but it did feel like some couples may have had a book previous this one.This was an enjoyable read, but I just didn’t really feel any connection between Bowie (aka August) and Luella. Essentially everything relationship wise took place in about 3 days and it was just too unrealistic for my standards. If I’m being honest most of this book was bit far fetched, but I really loved the family aspect of it.Luella is a somewhat widow (military husband declared MIA) who needs help and she decides to take her young daughter to meet her grandfather, the man who abandoned Luella as a baby. Hank, the Prez, is her father and the first meeting doesn’t go so well and Bowie steps up to help Luella and the baby, Magnolia. I thought him temporarily giving her help was really sweet until he decided it was okay to get in bed with her while she was sleeping (that’s so creepy, they just met! And you think it’s okay to sneak in and get bed with someone because she might be the one).Also, not a fan of him banging Penny, the club whore, and then going home and banging Luella; they were not a actual couple yet, but still that’s just nasty. Of course, they have crazy Penny pepping and causing problems which leads to Bowie slapping the shit out of her. Luella saw that and had some issues with it and she should, but again they are a MC and the my have their own rules, but does her father explain it? No. Does Bowie explain it? No. They have Ivory, an old lady and good friend, do it after a whole bunch crap happens.Then Luella’s husband comes back from the dead! His name was Soren and apparently his family had ties to LA Mafia. I’m still not sure why he faked his death and came back, his explanation was not clear because he kept acting like a schizophrenic. It was just a whole lot of drama and I’m not sure what in the world that was about. Will there be fall out? Who knows we then moved on to Bowie being kidnapped by mercenaries who were sent by a guy that owed the MC money and they took his building he put up as collateral.The man apparently used his daughter as payment, but Bowie got out with the daughter and all was well. Then 6 months later Luella and Bowie are getting married; so essentially this whole story took place in about 7 months including the first epilogue that took place 6 months later.