2.5 ⭐’sThis was easily my least favorite of the series, so I feel like it needs to be rounded down.Ryderis a forbidden-ish/I’ve loved you forever/love triangle-ish romance (ish) between Mia and Ryder. It was ok… I guess… but written in a way that Mia came of quite pathetic and Ryder very beta which sort of killed some of my excitement.Mia fell in love with Ryder when she was 14, and Ithinkhe was 18 (too lazy to fact check) Within the next couple years, Ryder too fell in love with Mia, but her grandpa the prez forbade any members from touching her. The book opens20 YEARSlater with MiaFINALLYdeciding to move on, and RyderFINALLYgetting the ok to go after his girl.Argh… I hated this setup.20 FREAKING YEARSshe sat around pining for him!! Watched him through a relationship and numerous hookups, I don’t care that she wasn’t celibate and also dated… it’s20 FREAKING YEARS!!She’s 34 and has wasted all her hot girl summer years moping around on this dude. She’sLITERALLYwatching life pass her by. And Ryder, he loves her so so much, but the badass biker is such a pussy that he can’t muster up enough moxie to confront the grandpa (that’s no longer in charge) … or threaten to leave the damn club. His brothersLITERALLYhave to approach him and tell him it's ok.Bottom Line- I found this the least entertaining, and I was bored much of the time. The couple stuff is all squared away by just over the halfway mark. It felt a bit manipulated because stuff happened (2 things) that pushed them together. The rest is club stuff/action subplot.Safety- The catalyst for Mia having enough is walking in on him making out with his ex. She’s staying with and continues to during the 2 weeks MIA disappears after the big I’m moving on blow out. We’re given very little during this time only “Even with Lily sleeping next to me every night, I haven’t been able to stop thinking about Mia.” so you’ll have to guess if they were having sex. During this time, Mia is sleeping with the OM Jaxson. Regardless, at this point the mc’s have NEVER had a relationship at all, not even a hookup. He breaks things with Lilly as soon as he gets the ok to pursue the h (20%) but she’s with the OM for a bit longer.