⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱*Still a cute read*⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱Re-read: 12.06.2018The book centers around midfielder for the soccer team,Kinsley ‘Kins’ Grace Bryant(19) and professional soccer player and her Coach for a some months,Liam Wilder(25). They got an instant connection, though no insta-love. The story is filled with humor, sarcasm, friendship, goal and finding yourone. Overall, it wasn't as good as I remember, but it still put a smile on my face and it was still worth reading.The moment Becca spoke, Liam’s hand retracted from my back as if he was awakening to the fact that he was touching me almost inappropriately. No, it was inappropriate. His hand had been resting just two inches above my shorts. Which is about five inches above my vagina. So… yeah, he was basically touching my vagina.Other characters:I've put these in a spoilers tag simply because it's a long list; contains spoilers.↦Emily ‘Em’, she and Kinsley were two out of five freshmen members of the University of Los Angeles women’s soccer team; ; a defender. Emily is from Minnesota. She’s a little quiet, but super sweet.↦Becca Rileywas another rookie on the team; a defender. Becca is from Texas and looks like she could be a Dallas Cowboys cheerleader.↦Tara O’Connell, senior and the captain of the team,Sofie, co-captain of the team; both a midfielder. Kinsley was heavily recruited for the team and had been voted rookie of the year by several soccer magazines prior to her signing on at ULA, which is why Tara radar was already locked onto her. Kinsley was a threat to her well-oiled system, which was made perfectly clear when she'd snubbed her at tryouts in front of everyone a few months prior.↦Josh, used to be Kinsley's boyfriend of four months; cheated. They had been friends for years before that. He is a part of the professional team (a rookie?). The LA Stars were the top soccer team in the US. Last year, five of their team members competed for the US in the World Cup only to lose in the last few minutes to Portugal. Needless to say, they were some of the top athletes in the world, with sponsorships and frequent spots on the talk-show circuit.↦Coach Davis, a grandmotherly drill sergeant. On the outside, she had greying hair and kind blue eyes, but when you least expected, she'd make you drop and do fifty pushups. She was one of the main reasons Kinsley had picked ULA; she was the top women's soccer coach in the nation.↦Penn, Liam's best friend and his teammate. They'd played together on the LA Stars for five years and they were often interviewed together on various talk shows. If there was anyone on the LA Stars team that could give Liam a run for his money in the looks department, it was Penn. He was just as tall as Liam, with dark brown hair and a Crest commercial smile.↦Lydia Bryant, Kinsley's mom.“Do you like me more than M&Ms?”“How do you know I like M&Ms?”I laughed, thinking back to the drive-in movie. “Last night you inhaled the entire bag before I could even take some.”He chuckled into the phone. “Ah, my M&M blinders were on. Excuse my poor manners.”“You didn't answer my question.”“Kinsley, I've never liked any girl more than I like M&Ms.”I laughed and let my head fall back against the wall. “Am I getting close?” I joked.“I'd say I like you more than regular M&Ms, but you're going to have to really step it up if you want to beat out peanut M&Ms.”“I have a tough road ahead of me.”“I think you can do it,” he joked, and I smiled against the phone.“Challenge accepted.”Quick basic facts:Genre: - (New Adult) Contemporary Romance.Series: - Standalone.Love triangle?-No.Cheating?-No.HEA?-Yes.Favorite character?- Liam Wilder.Would I read more by this author/or of series?- Probably...Would I recommend this book/series?- Sure.Will I read this again in the future?- Who knows me.New Rating- 3 stars.First read: 01.01.12.“She believed she could, so she did.”All Kinsley Bryant wants to do is to play soccer and get an invitation to the Olympic tryouts. However that won't be easy considering their team has a volunteered coach this summer...Liam Wilder, a professional soccer player has volunteered to be a Coach for the ULA girls soccer team, however as soon as he lays eyes on Kinsley, he's lost.“More than Peanut M&Ms,”Meet Kinsley, a sassy young girl at the age of 19. She great at soccer, has an fantastic mom who's adorable and she's a great friend. Kinsley is amazing. She doesn't take any bullshit and she tells you straight out what she thinks. She's confident and independent, down to earth who just wants to do what she loves, which is playing soccer. As soon as she meet's Liam however, who's forbidden and she can't stay away from him, she risk getting kicked out of the team..That scheming whore.If only we actually were in Harry Potter. I’d totally Crucio her ass. Yeah, that’s right, I’d use one of the Unforgivable Curses. Come at me, Ministry of Magic.Enter bad-boy Liam, a sexy alpha male at the age of 25. He's down to earth, fucking good at soccer and has the looks that will make your pants wet. He's charming as well as funny. He can be freaking pissed as well as acting a like a kid loving M&M's, with peanuts of course. And most important (Ehh, to me...), he's dominant and he takes what he wants. <-- Me likey ;D“That’s not surprising to hear. Your daughter is definitely in love with me, Mrs. Bryant. She hasn't told me yet, but she will soon.”Kinsley and Liam's chemistry are hot hot hot. They snap at each other, challenge each other, and they make each other laugh and feel better. They have the kind of relationship most would want, with sexy hot sex. They are simplymeant to be.“I'm not playing around with you, Kinsley. I want to be with you," he whispered in my ear before releasing my arm. I stumbled into the hallway, trying to gather my wits.”The book was awesome and a fun read. I'd might end up re-reading it sometimes in the future, which is saying something.. There were two things that were my favorites about this book which was ofc, Liam and Kinsley's relationship, but also Kinsley and Becca's friendship. Becca's was awesome, and totally supportive. She is the bestfriend we'd all want. She's funny as hell too. Perfect match to Kinsley. You also have cute Emily, though you don't see her as much, but she's loyal and adorable and I would definitely want her as a friend as well.“I know what it means to value the person you're with.”There are some things that are bothering me about the story, like almost insta-love and the fact that Kinsley got together with Liam so soon after Josh (who is a bastard btw), but if you look past that, then the book is kinda great. I love the drama, the loving, the friendships and fighting and I wished there was more books about Liam and Kinsley. Why I'm not giving the book full 5 stars is because something was missing and R.S. Grey skipped over a few parts in the book that would be interesting to read about, and 'Scoring Wilder' was a bit long, like it was dragged out a bit, but at the same time not.. I can't decide... Hence the mixed rating.Rate: 4/3-3.5 stars.