November 2017I picked this back up on a whim because I've been dealing with anxiety lately and wanted to return to something comforting, so I decided to annotate one of my paperback copies. And I gotta say, It's.... weird returning to book one. Ignite Me is my favorite book of all time, and rereading that book is such an immersive experience that I always come out of feeling empowered. This book, on the other hand, holds such a special place in my heart because it's so relatable that it hurts. From Juliette's panic to her awkwardness to her resilience to the writing style, everything just hurts so good. There's parts of me that I see in Juliette, and there's parts of Juliette that I wish I could be better at. It's just such a refreshing and inspirational book to read because it's about someone who has been handed the shittiest circumstances and still looks for the best in others, perseveres, and demands what's right for her. It's about learning to trust and realizing your worth and giving people second chances. FUCK i'm about to cry typing this review. I love Juliette so much and I love Tahereh even more for sharing a story that touches the deepest corners of my heart. It's truly a life-changing book for me.I’ve always read this as the story of a sad, self-conscious, self-loathing girl learning to see past obstacles to find love in herself and to let others in. however, i haven't read this since summer 2016, so my experience of reading this after the election & other #stressful political happenings opened my eyes to a completely new underside of the story. It had always been visible to me but was it never at the forefront, but this time I noticed it so vividly: this is also the story about a deeply hurt and angry girl who wants justice. People always criticize Juliette for being weak and annoying, especially in Unravel Me, but when she pushes back against her fear and stands up for herself, it's jaw-dropping. I envy her ability to know what's best for her and hold others' happiness and safety above her own even though she's gone through so much turmoil and deserves to be the person being looked out for. I used to think that Juliette gets suddenly really strong in Ignite Me, but reading this closely just showed how ready she was for that transformation. In my annotated editions, I use blue highlighter to mark parts where Juliette is really badass, and I didn't expect to use it a ton in this one, but it's everywhere. Juliette is a pure and fearless motherfucker. Even in book one she has powerful quotes like "I'm not yours to want," and it challenges all the ideas Warner tries to install into her head.Which is where this book gets slippery. It's getting really, really difficult for me to reconcile Warner's actions in book one. I've definitely had others question how I ship Juliette with Warner after all he's put Juliette through in this book, and it's a valid concern. Every time I think about this book, i'm just kinda like “hahaha problematic warner but whatever.” But the more I reread, especially after ignite me came out, and ESPECIALLY during this particular reread, the more questions I have that I can only hope will now be explained in restore me. Don't get me wrong, this book still means so much to me because of juliette, but there’s no possible way for me to read this book with the mindset “omg i love warner!!” because he’s literally the villain and he does and says so many problematic, manipulative things. Honestly, I don't think it's fair to justify everything Warner does. While rereading this I was actually shocked at the amount of nasty things he says to her, that I obviously must have forgotten or blocked from my memory. Things like telling her she'll be miserable if she leaves him because no one else will want her, calling her a monster, professing his love for her even when she's clearly uncomfortable. In Unravel Me and Ignite Me he explains why he did these things and says that he regrets doing it, but... it seems to gosofar in this book. I almost theorize that Tahereh must have written warner in book 1 to continue being a villain throughout the series, but there's way too many threads that suggest otherwise (ie. the introduction of the angst behind warner's mom, the fact that she felt "electricity" during their kiss, etc.)I feel like I could write an essay about this topic: the inconsistencies of Warner's personality, and whether or not it's justifiable to forgive him for his "misjudgments" of Juliette. It's just so strange to me that Adam & Kenji can say "Warner is a lot of things, but he's not stupid," and yet Warner misreads her SO horribly. I mean, in the scene that he corners her and kisses her, he's literally saying "I want you to choose me" and "I love you" and later admits that he thought she was into it, EVEN THOUGH she literally said "You're sick/you're a monster/etc." and physically tried to punch him before he pinned her to the wall. If he's so smart, then why couldn't he tell that every time he talks to her, she's afraid and disgusted? Is it really that easy to mistake fear for excitement? Disgust for nerousness?His behavior is so coercive and manipulative, and even though I know he was just trying to get a reaction out of her so that she would abandon her fear and finally use her power, there's not nearly enough of an apology as I would expect for things of this magnitude. The reason why I don't consider Warner an outright misogynist is an incredibly nuanced (and long) discussion, but the difference between him and, say, a Colleen Hoover character is that while Warner is saying and doing problematic things, he is also being cast in a problematic light. He is literally the villain of this story for putting her in those situations. Had Juliette been like "omg he's pinning me against a wall and threatening me, he's so dominating <3" then that would a lot more concerning. But I'm gonna have to reread Unravel Me as well to refresh my memory on how Warner addresses these actions and words because I really don't think he apologized or explained himself well enough, and I think it's totally valid for Juliette to absolutely roast him in Restore Me for treating her so shittily. My outrage about it is fresh though, and maybe Juliette comes to terms with his actions in a later book that I've forgotten about.Also? Drag me, but Adam doesn't get enough credit in this book. I know we all love to shit on him--myself included--for the direction he goes in Ignite Me, but his place in her journey of self-discovery is vital. Imagine this book without Adam, without that glimmer of hope and self-love that he installs in her. He's the first person to reassure her of herself and humanize her. Sure, they're not right for each other in the end, but it's not okay to dismiss their entire relationship as bullshit, because he DID help her see herself as something other than a monster, and I can't even imagine what this series would have been like if it were only Juliette brooding alone in her room, dreading Warner, stuck there until Warner was forced to tell her the truth about his mom or until Anderson showed up to ask what was taking so long. Idk. There's so many important quotes from Adam in this book. Sometimes it falls into the type of narrative that feels like "ugghhhh, she needed a boy to 'fix' her," but in reality, sometimes your friends have your back and reassure you of your worth, and sometimes your friends are more than your friends. I could make a LIST of all the positive things Adam said to Juliette in this book that caused her confidence to sky rocket, whereas almost everything Warner said installed panic and fear in her.So clearly I have conflicting feelings, but none of them intercede with the fact that I still cannot get over how much I adore this story. Sure, Warner sucks and I unironically wrote "ew" by half the things he says to her in this book, but watching Juliette's transformation and relating to her insecurities and thought process, as well as remembering how much I adored this book as a young teen, it's always going to be a priceless experience to me.July 2016I think this is my fourth or fifth time rereading it? I didn't plan to but my aunt showed interest in reading it and I jokingly offered to read it out loud to her, and she said yes. Thus, I proceeded to read this entire book out loud to her. And it was worth it.And what can I say? I love this book. I fucking love Juliette. Reading it out loud made me slightly more aware of how lame her stream of consciousness can sound, and how the metaphors become exhausting after a while. But I've sort of accepted that book one is always going to be slightly uncomfortable to reread just because of the fact that so much has changed by book 3 that this is almost cringe-worthy. There's so much set-up for world building that never occurs. Honestly this book is more of a 3 star rating, but I can't bring myself to lower it. It was due for a reread since it had been just about two years, and, like always, I noted several things that I had missed or forgotten since I read it last!August 2015I'm not quite sure why i've never uploaded a review on goodreads for this book. I mean, I feel like it kind of goes without saying how I feel about it but ya know. This is my favorite series. If you're sick of dystopian and never want to read one ever again, make an exception for this one. Ignore the fact that the entire fandom (and myself) has probably majorly spoiled you. But this book. Holy shit. The writing. YES. The characters. YES. The plot. YES. The range of emotions. YES. I could tell you the things wrong with it, but no book is perfect. But if you want a book with characters that you will not be able to get out of your head and with a plot that will have you reading an entire trilogy in one sitting, this book is your friend.reread: July 2014