I always feel bad leaving an unfavorable review and to be honest I was torn on this book. This was my first book by this author. When reading new to me authors, I like to keep an open mind. That being said, I've changed the rating on this review from 2 to 3 stars several times before posting. Here's my honest take on this book.Great story. I loved that Cassie was a shy klutz with a hidden naughty vixen to her. I've known plenty of shy people and the things that go through their heads would surprise people. As a former "shy" person, I loved reading as Cassie slowly came out of her shell.There were no obvious plot holes. I actually found myself picturing some of my author friends during the opening scene, trying to write at their desks at work and pretending to be working. The story was straightforward and entertaining. The characters were enjoyable and likable.The wording was off in too many places for it to be overlooked. Don't get me wrong, the book did not have spelling errors, so that's a huge sticking point for me. But the wrong correctly spelled words were used often. Spell check would never have picked up on it because the words were spelled correctly. However, just because a word is spelled correctly does not mean the sentence makes sense. I would recommend Ms. Sage fire her proofreader and hire someone who will do the great story justice. Someone who will actually read the book as opposed to just running it through spell check and deeming it fit. It was a great story, but every time I encountered the wrong word being used in a sentence, I cringed. Cringing is not good when reading romance.Now on to the ending... it just kind of ends. I wasn't looking for HEA. Not every story needs to end with marriage, 2.5 children, a dog, and a house in the Hamptons. But some resolution would be nice. "You're fired" and that's it and the epilogue left a lot to be desired. Not a big deal if their story is continued in the next book, however, from what I understand this is it for this couple. So we are expected to make the leap that eventually Carter wears her down when they're not even in a relationship? One hot night and multiple orgasms does not a relationship make. I didn't expect a HEA when they had sort of been hanging out together for a week. But at least make them an official couple before the story ends. I get it, he's decided that she's the one he'll marry. I want to point out he had made that decision once before and was wrong. Now, I am to understand from the author's own posts on social media that this is just how she likes to end her books. That's great. If that's how the story ends for you and the characters are done speaking to you, then stick to your guns and end the story. Otherwise, anything else comes across as forced. However, as someone who runs 2 blogs and reviews for 3 blogs, with over 5k books on her kindle, over 4k on her nook, and a few hundred more on her pc from other sources such as Smashwords and pubilisher sites, this sort of ending is not my cup of tea. So as much as I kept telling myself that I need to pick up the entire series to read after finishing this one, I'll have to pass. No point in reading a book, no matter how good it is if ultimately the end is a huge letdown and incomplete. I know this may be a different opinion to the author's loyal fans, but hey... to each their own.One more thing that went into my rating... the book is listed as 182 pages. However, from the first page to The End, the story is actually only 80 pages. I don't mind short books. I actually enjoy them. Some stories can only be told in a shorter format. However, I don't appreciate picking up a book only to realize that it's actually less than half the size listed. Now there could be something wrong with my copy. So if anyone actually received 182 pages of Shy girls write it better, I would love to hear about it so I could contact Amazon over it. Because even with all the added content, my copy is only 116 pages long. Otherwise, I feel let down.