“‘[T]ell me the truth, Tom, how many men do you figure the Don killed or had killed?’[Michael asked]Tom Hagen turned away. ‘I'll tell you one thing you didn't learn from him: talking the way you're talking now. There are things that have to be done and you do them and you never talk about them. You don't try to justify them. They can't be justified. You just do them. Then you forget it.’Michael Corleone frowned. He said quietly, ‘As theConsigliere, you agree that it's dangerous to the Don and our Family to let Sollozzo live?’‘Yes,’ Hagen said.‘OK,’ Michael said. ‘Then I have to kill him...’”- Mario Puzo,The GodfatherI’m sure you’ve had the timeless book-versus-movie argument before. Everyone has. You’re standing at the water cooler at work, and a coworker comes up to you and says “Boy,The English Patientis an excellent movie!” And maybe you say something back like “Michael Ondaatje’s Booker-Prize winning novel is far superior.” At that point, your coworker calls you a “pretentious snob” and you respond with “sewer-dwelling ignorance peddler.” There is some cursing. Maybe someone throws water on the other. That’s the argument. It is great fun, and an eminently worthwhile way to spend the moments God gives us.The Godfatheris a great example of this type of debate. Which is better? Mario Puzo’s bestselling novel, or Francis Ford Coppola’s Academy Award-winning film?The answer is both. Or neither. They are the same. Not just the same extremely high quality, but almost literally the same. If I were an alien visiting earth, I would believe it if someone told me that Puzo’sThe Godfatherwas actually a novelization of Coppola’s movie. (I assume, if I were an alien visiting Earth, the topic of movie novelizations would eventually arise).That is not the case, of course. Puzo’s novel was published in 1969. Coppola’s film came out in 1972, and spawned two sequels, one of which is worth mentioning.At this point,The Godfatherlegacy is so pervasive that I feel like my job is done. Even if you haven’t read the book or seen the movie, you probably know all the plot points, character beats, and one liners. There’s nothing more to say. However, since I get paid by the word, I’ll keep going.The Godfathertells the story of the Corleone family. They are typical American strivers who immigrated from Italy, started a business selling olive oil, and are part of the Mafia. The patriarch of the family – the Godfather – is Vito Andolini Corleone, a distant and reticent man of near-omnipotent powers. He is surrounded by three sons: hotheaded Santino (Sonny); weak and obedient Frederico (Fredo); and young World War II hero Michael, who when the novel opens has never been part of “the family business.” The family’s consigliere, or advisor, is the Irish-American orphan Tom Hagan.The novel – like the film – opens with the wedding of Don Corleone’s daughter Connie. This is an excellent device for introducing on the main characters, their roles within the hierarchy, and the Don’s far-reaching power.(I could spend all day comparing the book to the film. I promise I won’t. But I’d feel remiss if I failed to mention how much time is spent on a character named Lucy Mancini. This is one of the big differences between book and movie. In the film, we see her for a second – she is the bridesmaid with whom Sonny has sexual congress. In the novel, she is treated like a major character, even though her plot arc has nothing to do with the central narrative. And do you want to know what her plot arc is? I don’t think I’m spoiling anything by saying that it is a pelvic floor problem. Sonny, you see, was the only man with enough manhood – so to speak – to satisfy Lucy. Puzo, for reasons lost to history, decides to devote an entire section of the novel to Lucy’s pelvic floor surgery. I’m not making this up. I’m not clever enough to make this up).The precipitating event ofThe Godfatheris the attempted assassination of Don Corleone by an up-and-comer named Virgil “the Turk” Sollozzo, who was mad at the Don because the Don didn't join him in the heroin business. Don Corleone’s wounding puts Sonny in charge and draws Michael into the family business. I don’t need to continue with a plot summary. If you’ve seen the movie, you know what happens next. If you just came out of a long hibernation, I don’t want to spoil anything.It is worth noting, despite the comparisons I can’t help making to the movie, that this is a standalone piece of quality fiction. The characters are unforgettable, from the central figure of Don Corleone himself, who is given a lengthy flashback section (familiar to fans ofThe Godfather, Part II), to secondary characters such as Luca Brasi (a sort of Sicilian Keyser Soze, whose very name terrifies people) and Johnny Fontane (a Frank Sinatra stand-in, given his shot at stardom by the Don).The plotting is excellent. The story is propulsive. This is the kind of book that needs to be taken on a long plane trip, because it really passes the time. (I had to stop reading it at bedtime, because it burned away my ZzzQuil haze).The writing, especially the dialogue – which has become part of American pop culture – is excellent. And worth sharing.For instance, the Godfather has some Godfatherly advice on the value of friends:“Friendship is everything. Friendship is more than talent. It is more than government. It is almost the equal of family. Never forget that. If you had built up a wall of friendships you wouldn’t have to ask me to help.”There is also some excellent guidance on the importance of a personal touch:“You shouldn’t let that broken jaw influence you,” Hagen said. “McCluskey is a stupid man, and it was business, not personal.”For the second time he saw Michael Corleone’s face freeze into a mask that resembled uncannily the Don’s. “Tom, don’t let anybody kid you. It’s all personal, every bit of business. Every piece of shit every man has to eat every day of his life is personal. They call it business. OK. But it’s personal as hell. You know where I learned that from? The Don. My old man. The Godfather. If a bolt of lightning hit a friend of his the old man would take it personal…That’s what makes him great…He takes everything personal. Like God. He knows every feather that falls from the tail of a sparrow or however the hell it goes. Right? And you know something? Accidents don’t happen to people who take accidents as a personal insult. So I came late, OK, but I’m coming all the way…”Coppola’s films resonate because they play on the hoary old tropes of the American Dream. The Corleone family is the archetypical immigrant clan that comes to the United States and makes good. The sly subversion, of course, is that they make good by controlling the unions and bookmaking.In the film, it’s easy to get behind the Corleone family as the “good guys” while the other Mafia families are the “bad guys.” You cheer for Al Pacino because he’s Al Pacino (“Hoo-ah!”). At the same time, the film’s moral compass – Diane Keaton’s Kay Adams – is given the role of wet blanket, nagging and prying and generally taking time away from the kinetic scenes of gangland mayhem.There are elements of that theme in Puzo’s novel, but I found the main thread here to be much darker, more brooding, and far less certain that all these people we’ve followed are worthy of the attention. Puzo opensThe Godfatherwith a quote from Balzac: “Behind every great fortune there is a crime." Then he sets out to give you Exhibit A. He certainly baits you into siding with his protagonists early in the novel. By the end, however, he makes clear that the Corleones are not heroes, but criminals, and that there is a price they’ll have to pay for everything that they’ve done.