The Curse and the Silver Rose is the first book in the Fairytales Forever trilogy, a series of reimagined fairytales with spice. This first book is a retelling of Beauty and the Beast. Amelie is the young woman promised to the beast, Davron, by her two brothers.I liked the story in this book - it wasn't just a straight retelling of the story, and it added something new. I liked the two magical items involved in the story - the silver rose sword and the rose-gold clamshell, and I enjoyed how they were used in the story. The enchantments in the Castle were interesting too and I liked how they were utilised.I had a slight issue with the pacing, although this could be down to the fact that I'm personally not a fan of either insta-love or a third act breakup, both of which occur here. So what I see as pacing issues might just be related to the use of these tropes. For example, when Amelie and Davron start to talk, things move very fast (emotionally and physically), to the point that I categorised it as insta-love. This is followed by a really good action scene, which is fast-paced and exciting, and then there's the third act breakup.For me, this really slowed down the pace of the book. There's quite a few chapters during this separation where not much happens so the change in pace definitely stood out for me. If the book had been longer, maybe this could have been addressed by increasing the time spent in the castle getting to know each other before the romance accelerated which might have created more balance overall. But I come into this review as an enemies-to-lovers slow-burn obsessive, so that might be a me-issue. I know that not every romance has to be slow burn and enemies-to-lovers and therefore there's nothing actually wrong with a quick romance! It's just not my personal favourite.I've gone with 4 stars for The Curse and the Silver Rose because I enjoyed the story, and I wouldn't want to mark it down just because the tropes in this book weren't ones that hit the most for me. Just because I love a slow burn romance with no third act breakup doesn't mean that someone else won't completely adore this take on the classic fairytale and give it the easiest 5 stars. I plan to continue reading this series and can't wait to see the new twists on these well-known fairytales!Disclaimer: I received an ARC from BookSirens, but this is my voluntary and honest review.