“Never mix vodka and witchcraft.”I heard this had Hocus Pocus vibes and knew that it would be a perfect fit for the spooky season as it's one of my favorite movies for this season. This definitely gave off those vibes with the witches, a talking black cat, and a magical town.The Ex Hex is a small town, rom-com, second chance romance with humor, banter that was fun and had me cracking up, tension, magic, and a dash of spice. The writing was cozy and light and everything I was looking for even though it did take me a minute to get into it with being third person as I prefer first person and multiple pov's. I did end up enjoying it, and it was the perfect book for the season.Vivienne "Vivi" Jones had dated Rhys Penhallow for three months during the summer, and he broke her heart. One night, while Vivi was getting drunk over her heartbreak from Rhys, her cousin Gwyn proposed that they put a curse on him. So they jokingly cursed him, not knowing that their drunken curse would actually work. Now, nine years later, Rhys must return back to Graves Glen per his father's request to fulfill his families duties to the town that they had founded. When Rhys goes to charge the ley lines, which supplies the towns magic, the curse is transferred from him through his magic and spreads through the town. Will they be able to stop the curse that has taken over the town?“You almost ran your ex- boyfriend over with a car, and then left him lying in the literal dirt on the side of the road. It is such a big deal, you absolute queen.”I enjoyed Vivi's aunt and cousin. Her Aunt Elaine was fun and full of wisdom and knowledgeable with magic and had always said never mix vodka with magic. Guess they should have listened to her lol. Gwyn was sassy and funny. She always had something to say back. Her and Vivi have a close relationship that is more sister like than cousins. They always look out for one another.What Rhys knew was that kissing her had felt like waking up. Like he’d been drifting sleepily through everything for the past nine years until he tasted her mouth again and remembered what actually being alive felt like. Better than any magic, Vivienne’s kiss.“I am mad about you, Vivienne Jones. Again. Or maybe I should say still, because I’m gonna be real honest with you here, cariad. I don’t think it ever went away.”They say that opposites attract, and these two are complete oppostie of each other. The chemistry between Vivi and Rhys after all these years is very much still present. It just took Vivi a while to give into the attraction and spark that was still present between them. I really did love Vivi even with some of her quirks. She often times is flustered and is overthinking the what ifs, especially with her magic. I can relate to the overthinking because oftentimes I do as well. She was also insecure at times with her magic as she didn't find out she was a witch until she was older as her mother didn't practice. I loved watching her growth with those insecurities and becoming the badass witch that she was always meant to be. Rhys always had something to say with his sarcastic comments that had me cracking up, and he had a sweet side. That sweet side that was reserved for Vivi, he called her cariad, which means love in Welsh. Whenever he called her that it had me melting.“You’ve had my heart from the moment I saw you on that bloody hillside, and I hate that I wasted nine years without you, but I’m not wasting a single second more. If you need to be here, then I need to be here. Simple as that.”There was one thing that I wish we would have gotten more of, and that is a backstory on Rhys and his family. I wanted to know more about him. Other than that, I enjoyed this once I got into it, and the ending was so cute and heartfelt. So if you're looking for a cute, fun fall read, pick this one up.~~~~~~~~Took a break from spooky season reads. Starting back up with some witchy vibes 🖤🧙