R A T I N G:3.5 stars to The Office Party!★ ★ ★“Hell yes, they do.” He smiles. “It’s mandatory. No exceptions.”“Top executives and yourself included.” I rattle off his infamous memo line. “An off day would make you one hell of a hypocrite.”“Not necessarily…You’ve been my only exception from day one.”The big merry 'C' word is just around the bend, gleefully tossed about in more than just hushed whispers now that we've moved into the penultimate month of 2021. And admittedly, I'm both wondering how ten individual months were snagged from under me so swiftly as much as my very semi-celebratory self feels just as unprepared for another something-to-celebrate occasion. I do love the atmosphere, the festive air and the general mood of indulgence but I'm not particularly one for seasonal reading. To readWhitney G’sChristmas-themed novella wasn't a purposeful, seasonal attempt to dress myself in a fictional wreath nor to adorn myself in yards of figurative tinsel.I selected this on pure whim, as is per the usual for me and I really, really enjoyed every bit of my time with The Office Party.We instantly get a precept of Garrett West's professional discipline via his inviolable Christmas work policy which demands (without exemption or excuse, without fail every December) that every employee must observe his annual, sacrosanct tradition:The Office Party.West Media's CEO is a non-lenient, work-obsessed taskmaster who believes the holiday season is no time for a holiday. As such, he's the giftee of employee scorn, with a whole behind-the-scenes assembly of personnel dedicated to backbiting him to smithereens; a chat group all started by his colleague, Savannah Grey.One year earlier and no longer willing to humour her boss's ridiculous tradition, with a sneaky flip of the bird to the end-of-year non-holiday, Savannah calculatedly plans her escape. Her mini rebellion backfires however, when she's caught red-handed by the demon in a three piece suit in person. A mighty mission to cheat her way out of The Office Party ends up with a major interruption as her boss eats up the miles between them just to tow her back to face the established company custom.One year and the same job later, Savannah aims to gift the he-devil with a present that matches her utter lack of affection for him. This also backfires when she receives an after-hours invitation of a different sort altogether…Over the years, I've read very few novellas for the reason that shorter-length reads often don't have the page-length to accommodate replete, replenishing storytelling. They can fail to deliver a story that assures developmental particulars are met. It's very fair to say that I have an ambivalent relationship with them, and hence have a preference for full-length stories because I feel secure that a writer isn't creatively limited by a laconic style. This is also why I have huge admiration for writers who can tackle‘the novella’with fine-pointed finesse. A full-length read compensates the general lack in a short-length read. And a full-length story will usually tell a story better than a short-length would, and with the absence of depth bite-sized literature has to really pack a punch.The Office Party would have been a brilliant read with more words to tell this story, but I still think it was brilliant for what it was.It was easy to get into, easy to turn the pages, uncomplicated and undemanding and I really enjoyed the writing.To pick apart a few things, I was surprised that the author chose to put her hero/heroine in separate relationships for a story of this size (even if those sidelong relationships have a swift shelf life). I also puzzled through a hero and heroine who have apparently both been in love with each other long since but have spent that time apart and with other people. Granted, as mentioned above, a novella is more conductive to the depth of a sinkhole than one of a valley, but I think the author could have shareda few more details still.I'm still trying to suss out the age group of the protagonists, how long they've worked together, where the enmity comes from when both Savannah and Garrett are alike in many ways. But perhaps I’m thinking In full-length novel terms so take this with as many pinches of salt as necessary reader friends.I really loved the relationship chemistry; the need for Garrett and Savannah to outfox one another.The relationship dynamic works really well and it’s clear that Whitney G. comfortably writes her leads with the practiced, performative to and fro we love,but I am conflicted about what Savannah and Garrett actuallyhavebeen to each other over the years. She's his favourite executive. They're supposedly friends but frenemies too, with a history of attraction while the frictional bite back dresses up the sexual tension. The author does let us know that they've been at this cat and mouse chase for years, that they do have a simmering (if not acted upon) history which does help in setting a slim scene. Again, a fuller story would have quashed the confusion but all in all, it is a bit abrupt and the exclaimed'I love you scene’is a fitting bolt-from-the-blue example.Of course, the hope for more was always at the tip of my tongue but the author sharply pulls this interracial office romance together with steamy repartee and rom-com chemistry.It’s well-written, readable, fun, amusing and a perfect little confection for the shifting season. I really enjoyed it and promptly signed up the author’s newsletter. An alphahole boss(an infringer of seasonal joy)and a bold heroine(who gets everything on her Christmas wish list)entertain with steam and personality in the first addition to theHoliday Homecomingseries made up of bite-sized novellas. My romancing mutuals, this is absolutely worth a read.C O N T E N T_W A R N I N G:Swearing, minimal bedroom scenes and also mentions compulsive drinking.E X T R A T H O U G H T S:1) Seeing as this is a short read I do think the blurb gives too much away.2) Also, I’m really surprised that Garrett actually does fire his own brother for the same reason he ends up retracting his no-fraternisation policy. But then perhaps we should expect nothing less from Whitney G.'s brand of heroes.----------------------------------------------------Visit my blog for more reviews:V.L. Book ReviewsT W I T T E R: @TheVicarious1I N S T A G R A M: @Vicarious.Hearts----------------------------------------------------