Edit: 3 starsLoking back, this book frustrated me too much to get a 3.5. It's a good thing I didn't round it up.Original review:3.5 starsIt is as much the book's responsibility to hold your attention as it is your responsibility to give the book your attention.- Ankur WarikooI'm definitely in the minority but I can't find it in myself to care. Never saw this coming but oh well...Fair warning, this is going to be long.We met Jesse and Ella in Chasing Daylight (A.J and Ana's book), which is one of my favourites by Sahin. There was this tension between them that could be cut with a knife and you could feel on your skin. As a reader, you felt compelled to read their story and know what's really cooking. We got bits and pieces about them in Chris and Rory's book and The Hunted one (Sav and Griff). Basically, all these tiny cameos or snippets made you think that their love was one of great turmoil and it could be happy-time for them if only Jesse took his head out of his ass. Hohoho how fucking wrong everyone was....I don't go for second chance romances because usually there are other partners during the separation. Or if an author is feeling extra dicky, it's the h who's a born again virgin while the H is busy whoring it up with the pretense of "trying to forget his one true love" 🙄But I was willing to put my personal issues aside and was actuallyexcitedto read their book because it's been a long time coming. They've been in love for 17 fucking years. They should get their HEA, yes? Sad to say, by the time this book ended, I didn't really care what happened to them. But I still kept on because of the secondary characters and I felt some kind of loyalty towards the author and the characters she's given me. And because I'm kinda anal about finishing a book I pick up.The Romance:The first 50% of the story wasconstantback and forth between Jesse and Ella. They had one weekend in New York where Ella propositioned him but no kissing allowed (🙄), he asked her to promise that she would move on after and she ACCEPTED. She fucking accepted the deal and went forward with their weekend. There's a lot of other drama in relation to them from the books I mentioned above, that is referenced here. Not really in a mood to explain all the OM shit, who Ella was going to marry. Almost did, but she called it off at the last moment🥱There's SO MUCH angst and bullshit, it hurt my brain and heart. Some people live for this shit but I couldn't take it. She's crying about how Jesse will never be with her blah blah but she refuses to wonder why. She's constantly saying in her internal monologue how J would go crazy if someone hurt her or flirted with her so it's not like she's unaware! But in the next moment she cries about him not loving her ughhhhh! Then lo and behold, the last 30%, where Bama girl just has a change of heart and is okay with everything🙂Ella is supposedly sassy and stubborn as hell. While I could see the latter in abundance, apart from the prologue, no sass was to be found. Or maybe we just have different definitions of sass 🤷‍♀️The saving grace was thatneitherJesse or Ella slept with/touched other people during their 3 year separation. Even though Ella was supposed to get married, she never slept with the guy. It's VERY rare to see the male lead being celibate during separations, so I appreciate it. Safe to say, I really liked Jesse.The Hypocrisy:The Hawkins(ella) and McAdams(jesse) families are supposed to be very close and tightly knit. Unfortunately, I did not see it. Apart from Savanna, Jack and Ella's mom, everyone was atop their high horses and treated Jesse like shit. NO ONE WAS ON HIS SIDE. Not Rory, his sister who I never really liked, not his best friend, though he did come around much later, definitely not his fuck of a dad who beat him all through his childhood and verbally abused him.The entire first half of the book was everyone telling Jesse to man up and blaming him for his job. He was a CIA assassin after his stunt in the military and a job gone wrong brought danger to Ella and her family. EVERYONE would give him these disgusted looks and were plain mean to him. No one gave a fuck about what he was going through or what he had to say. This comes under hypocrisy because A.J himself along with his friends, works clandestine operations for POTUS. You're judging Jesse when he was doing his damn job just like you?! I was disappointed in A.J and Rory in this book. One upset me with his hypocrisy and one with her sheer lack of understanding or compassion for her own damn brother.My heart hurt for Jesse throughout the book. I wanted to comfort him and hug him tight. Reading his internal thoughts was painful and I cried a couple of times. He had a rough childhood with his dick of a dad and the feeling of being broken which I could relate to. He would constantly say he's broken but no one really gave a shit? They're like "why does he say that, huh wonder what he means". Can we just stop with the judgement and just support him?! The man is severely depressed with past trauma and is hurting pretty bad. If the author would have been like yay he found love so now he's healed, I would have been super mad. I wanted him to get therapy and just be. Good thing Sahin makes her men and women not shy away from getting professional help. Chris started getting help in his book and Rory followed. Apparently, Jesse was getting help for the past year or so, and for that I'm grateful.Love is powerful but love can't solve depression. It could be a catalyst but it takes a lot effort and courage to work through your problems. Finding love doesn't mean your issues disappear; and if you think it does, then the word you're looking for iscodependency.Another thing I appreciated about Jesse is that even when he was judged for his job, he never regretted it. He was working for his country and was proud of it.He couldn't change his past, his time with the CIA, and if he were honest with himself, he wouldn't want to either. Yes, his time in the army had taken him away from Ella, but he'd been serving his country which was something he couldn't regret.The suspense/action:It picks up only after the halfway mark. The next 20% is exciting and kept me on my toes. There's another lull in the story and the last 10% is jam packed. The action was good but all the issues mentioned above ruined my reading experience. I just wanted to get it over with.Side characters:I always thought that Gray and Sydney would be end game but Syd and Beckett would be interesting to watch, especially since I'mdonewith second chances for a long, long time. Zoey and Carter will have an emotional story is all I can say. That man has a lot of hurt to let go of before he can find his happiness.I love Growly Griffin and my Sweet Sav. Their story had angst too, but never did they act like immature idiots, which is why they'll always be my favourites.There's alotfrom my notes that I haven't put in, like the 50+ highlights where I wanted to throw my kindle across the room or break something on Jesse's behalf. I always knew that this story would break my heart and also piece it back together. Unfortunately, my excitement was doused by the unnecessary and unreasonable angst that hardly made sense to me. There are people who like that stabby feeling in your tummy that angst gives you, but I am not one of them and no writing is good enough to tolerate it. My unhealthy habit of not dnf-ing books and misplaced hope that it would get better forced me to finish this 🤡I would have rounded up the 3.5 stars but a good epilogue doesn't cancel out the frustration that more than half the story gave me. I'll read the next one when it comes out and hope for the best.