It's all a fun dare, but these ladies take that seriously, even if it means becoming a Secret SantaThe Firefighter's Secret Santa is the first book in the Christmas in Alpine Valley series. All I can say is that I adored this story. When a group of five best friends are having their pre-Christmas Sip & Dip celebration at an event room at the Alpine Valley Community Center. When they are interrupted something happens and all of a sudden they are all about to partakes in the towns Secret Santa event in the same room tomorrow. This story is about Lily Hansen, who is twenty-five years old and is a website designer for small businesses. After she graduated college she moved back home to Alpine Valley and now works out of her apartment. There is only one problem and it is named Gage Anderson, her brother Josh's best friend and the man she has crushed on since she was twelve years old. Gage is a firefighter who works with Josh. When he was seventeen years old and in his senior year his parents were killed in an accident and it was the Hansen family that saw him through things. Gage is tall, built, has a sexy grin and piercing eyes, and ever single woman belongs to his fan club. He has also been chosen again to be the cover picture of the annual firefighters calendar. Gage may have a fan club and have women chasing after him but he only has eyes for one woman, and it the only he he cannot have, Lily. When she moved back to town she had definitely grown up and into a beautiful, curvy and smart woman. So when Lily pulls the number for her Secret Santa assignment she is about to get the one man she cannot have, and can barely form a word around, Gage. Well this is about to get very fun and hot as these two dance around each other so fast they barely can catch their breath, but they do catch each other!!!This was a fun, humorous, quirky, entertaining and charming Christmas story with a different and very interesting premise. I loved the Secret Santa idea and the fact that there are a whole bunch of rules about being the Secret Santa, including that you have to spend time with the person. I really loved this story and sign me up for more Secret Santa's in Alpine Valley, I can't wait to read the rest in this series!