2.75 stars✩⋆when i saw that this book has groveling, best friend's brother, grumpy/sunshine trope,touch her and i'll kill you,i hate everyone but you, a bed-sharing scene, great friend group, and revenge plan (???), i ran so fast and downloaded this real quick. plus, this was being hyped in booktok so might as well read it.i don't know why but this book just made me evaluate my life-myself. why do you ask? well,WARNING FOR NON ROMANCE READERS THIS ⤵ QUOTE IS SPICY OK BYE:"And your pussy is mine. Every inch of you belongs to me, and if you ever let another man touch you- he'll end up in pieces, and you'll end up tied to my bed and fucked in every hole until my name is the only one you remember. Do you understand?"and at first i was likebecause there's things you need to know about me when it comes to my taste for irl men:1.i hate bossy men (pls- i'm bossy enough as it is)2.toxic? i rebuke this negative energy.3.if you threaten to kill someone if they so much as touch me, therapy or 911?4.if you call me questionable nicknames while having sex, BYE ✋and normally, my attitude iswhy do menbut when i read this? i don't know myself anymore.i don't know what came over me but suddenly i... i um.. that quote above... i LiKe it... so if you know me, no you don't.but anyways, going back to the book, i like bothAva(h) andAlex(H) as individual characters. Alex is literally THE definition of a "fictional character" because that man is too perfect. basically, he has an IQ of 160, created a software thingy that made him a multimillionaire in high school and became the COO of a real estate agent development or something and has Highly Superior Autobiographical Memory aaand knows Krav Maga AAAND apparently fucks like a porn star? i-that's too much perfection ma'am.i thought Ava and her friend group were also fucking perfect because✧Bridgetis a literal princess (i'm not joking)✧Julesis jessica rabbit (??) apparently (also, fingers cross for a Jules and Josh book)✧Stellais this influencer who has 400k followers (???)can i be a part of this fictional friend group pls and thx.i thought the romance was cute in the beginning. usually, in a brother's best friend book the girl isalwayspining for the guy while the guy plays a martyr act and becomes a ho to "push" the girl away even though he has feelings for her. i'm glad that's not the case here and love the fact that Ava was even a little indifferent towards him at first. and honestly? the smut scenes were kinda hot.overall,this is a very chill book. at least for me. though there are sometw (spoilers) // parental deaths, violence, and child abuse-`,✎WHY NOT A HIGHER RATING?➳since uh, when?i really did think the romance and the wholeOperation Emotionthing in the beginning was cute, though, their feelings for one another went from 0 to 100 very fast because Alex really went from not caring that Ava was having a nightmare and acting all cold and "heartless" to:"She was mine. She just didn't know it yet. I hadn't known it myself until I saw her in Colton's arms and every instinct raged at me to tear her away. To claim what belonged to me."i only sensed attraction but i didn't get the feeling they were already at the "she's mine, he's mine" stage. one chapter he's acting all nonchalant and cold and then in the next he “desires” her and tells us how badly he wants her and i was like bish when? most of the things he talked about in his pov was about his revenge and a little bit of attraction and with ava's pov it was all the operation emotion so them having intense feelings for one another felt kinda quick.their banter was cute the scenes were cute but personally it wasn’t enough for me to be convinced with his new macho man personality towards her. there wasn’t enough depth to be honest. like i didnt get the vibes he cared enough for her to call her “his” because even when he saw her having night terrors in the beginning, i got the vibes he didnt care for her that much and still acted like she was a nuisance.➳telling >>> showingwhen they got together after the first time they had sex there was a lot of telling >>> showing of how they are as a couple and that really bugs me because i'm the type of person who wants to knoweverything. apparently, they went on dates, alex was suddenly making jokes (?), and they talk through the night but because of the 0 to 100 energy and telling >>> showing, I. STILL. DONT. SEE. THEM. DOING. ALL. THAT. like- what do they even talk about?? and because of this, i wasn't really convinced with their “love”, i just didnt feel it becausei wantedallthe details of how they are as a couple and we didn't really get that. once they have sex, most of the romance were written in the inner monologue and it's mainly because the last half focused more on the revenge plot. also, even the the grovelling was telling >>> showing. noo, i need more.➳Viciousreincarnatedno, but everyone is right tho- i can definitely see the Vicious in Alex. he likes fucking classy women, has insomnia, and has a revenge plan that includes the heroine. i see no difference.➳OW dramadon't worry, it's nothing bad but i just find it icky when Alex says that the OW fucks like a porn star or when he was about to go on a "date" with the OW (don't worry, Ava ruined his plans) or when the OW says this to Ava's face:"Alex doesn’t do either of those things. It’s well known amongst a certain segment of D.C.’s female population. No kissing, no face-to-face contact during sex. But he will take you from behind. Choke and fuck you till you see stars. Call you the filthiest names and treat you like a slut."and then Ava thinks this is hot. personally, if someone says this to my face about the guy i'm into, i will dip because that's an ick for me (please blame my virgo sun and my high standards). you're telling me you're gonna fuck your girl the same way you've fucked your past hookups? ew no thx.-`,✎OVERALL THOUGHTSagain, i thought the romance was cute but it was just ok. the first half was full of cute moments but the last half kinda went down with all the telling >>> showing and i was kinda disappointed with the groveling because of this. like- you're just gonna describe how Alex has grovelled for a YEAR in just a page? no ma'am i want to seeeverything. also, i wanted more scenes of them of how they are as a couple because i just don't see Alex being all soft towards Ava.i'm excited for the next book, aka Bridget's book tho! i love the whole princess/bodyguard, forbidden trope. plus, her future mans name isRHYS. that name will forever be sacred so this fictional man who has the privilege of being named after that sacred name better live up to my high af standards.»»━━Twisted series━━««#1: twisted love— ava x alex ➳2.75 stars#2:twisted games— bridget x rhys ➳tbr#3:twisted hate— jules x josh ➳tbr#4:twisted lies— stella x christian ➳tbr