Sumptuously Rich and Layered. Seriously Heated!Even better the third time… and holy moly, the audiobook is seriously diiiirty!When Elodie Hart’s (Sara Madderson’s explicitly steamy romances) first book in the Alchemy Series, Unfurl, was released, I felt the deeply empowering messages and sensuality of it, down to my core. Freedom. Breaking out from what holds us back. A reclaiming. A subtle unfurling of Self. It was a personally empowering book. Book two, Undulate, has unlocked another cage for me.I was given an Advance Review Copy (ARC) of Undulate and I feel blessed to tell you that this book and the Alchemy series is definitely one that women who are searching for an understanding of themselves will want to read.Maddy is such a wonderfully self-actualized young woman at the age of 23, it’s almost hard to believe it’s possible. Most of us are working on knowing and accepting who we are until the day we die. But I think Maddy understands the secret. She has been working on being who she is, since she was a teen. She knows — and lives —who she is right now. She trusts herself not to be rigid in her knowledge of herself. She is willing to continue to grow and expand, undulating in the current of life and all of its ripples. Accepting that life changes as it flows along, rather than fighting it.So what is it about Undulate that makes it such a wonderfully empowering story to read? As Maddy gets to know Zach, she first believes it’s all about pleasure, but it quickly becomes about so much more. Zach gives Maddy a family… not that she was searching for one, but she recognizes her life is enriched by it. Zach allows her to explore other sides of who she is without sacrificing her hard earned understanding of herself.Zach is a grieving widower with two young daughters and he’s essentially only existing. Zach and Maddy's souls recognize each other and the need they have for each other. She brings pleasure and intimacy back into his life, and that helps not only him, but his children too. Seeing their father happy, helps them know they are safe.I absolutely adore Zach’s alpha attitude in the bedroom! Mostly though, I adore the single daddy trope. It tugs at my heartstrings so strongly, it is my kryptonite. A man who gives everything he has for his deep love of his children — to the extent that he gives precious little to himself. He needs the balance of support and excitement a loving relationship offers.That’s an ‘a-ha!’ moment right there… WE ALL need balance in all the compartments of our lives — love, devotion, work, family — everything. Who said reading romance couldn’t teach us about life?! Not me.I laughed out loud, I cried into my sleeve, I clenched my thighs in the gazillion scenes filled with spicy role play heat! I loved the life these two createdI laughed out loud, I cried into my sleeve, I loved the life these two created!Sara Madderson is one of my very favourite authors. Her characters are lovely, with self-assured women, who are smart, stylish, caring, fabulous, and comfortable financially, if not wealthy. We love them because they are all these things. And, I personally love that both the female and the male main characters communicate well. They are not so hung up by the traumas of their lives that they have to hide themselves. They say what they mean and mean what they say. It’s such a refreshing change every time I go back to one of her books.We are so caught up in who we think we should be to fit in. Maddy wears her sexuality and her fantasies as a badge of honour. May we all be so brave and true.