the star is only for the heatThere are romances that make you tingle from inside out and then there are romances that make your blood boil from anger. This was the latter.The hero (in his 40s, godfather to the h, the first person to hold her after she was born) sees the transformation of the heroine, who just turned 18 and apparently also a sexy seductress, because for our hero she's goddaughter no longer, but a WOMAN 🤷Now, Q.B. Tyler can write taboo like no other. There are at least 3 novels of hers, where the couple knew each other when the girl was either a toddler or a child, but the author still managed to show the gradual transformation of platonic feelings into sexual attraction. It was taboo, it was forbidden, it was something you would hate irl, but it was believable. Here, instead of going the familiar route, we see the couple 3 years after their break up. Their initial relationship is shown in weird flashbacks, and there is no explanation or reason, beyond the heroine getting boobs, why and how they could embark on their sex fest.Now this is the moment I got pissed at the hero, and there was no going back from that. No amount of redeeming could save him in my eyes, but the sad thing is, he didn't even try that hard to redeem himself. So h and H have been fucking for a year, sneaking behind everyone's backs, lying to h's parents, who just happen to be H's life long best friends. H proclaims his love to the h and says he sees marriage and kids in their future. (h is 19 and H ~42-43). Instead of coming clean to their family and friends, and, you know, move towards that bright future of theirs, they proceed to fuck in secret and lie about it to everyone around them for another year.After TWO years of fucking, the hero breaks up with the heroine, because "we have no future together" (he was just scared telling her parents/his best friends the truth). He moves to Mexico, breaks her heart and they don't have any form of contact for THREE EFFING YEARS!The first year the heroine was severely depressed, didn't eat properly or take care of herself, drank too much etc. Then she remembered the H's advice and moved on. Met a guy, who was kind to her and started a relationship. Two years later she's planning the wedding with said guy, and our H gets a wedding invitation. He gets pissed and drops everything to come back and "claim his woman back". Apropos, that was the PROLOGUE of this story. Sir, excuse you?! You were the one who left! This behaviour showed me right from the start how selfish, egomaniacal and cruel this man is.The hero, upon his arrival, tried everything in his power to corner the heroine, to get her alone and talking. He was pissed that she found a new guy and didn't wait for him, disrespected their engagement time and time again and had selfish demands for the heroine.The latter is not at all fault-free in my eyes. If she was innocent in the debacle that was their relationship prior their break up, she was just as at fault, if not more later on. The girl was engaged, yet cheated the first chance she got. The author tried to justify it by saying that her fiance cheated first, when they only started going out (10 days into their relationship). We were led to believe that Parker (fiance) was controlling, by seeing how often he called the heroine and wanted to know where she was and who she was with. This was shown as creepy, controlling behavior, although when the hero did the same shit, it was sweet and endearing, and caring and protective. We were shown how prone to passive aggressive remarks Parker was, as if any of it was justification for the affair the heroine had behind his back.There were two voices of reasons in this book, Chloe and Mason, best friend and brother of the heroine respectively. They tried to stop her from having an affair, reminded of her engagement. The friend even said that she should stop drinking, go home, think things through and break up with the fiance BEFORE doing anything with the ex. Sane advice, but does the heroine follow it?Of course no! She spends 1/3 of the book either drunk or on the way to being drunk, is always horny af for the hero, even in the most ridiculous situations. They still hide their relationship from h's parents, her father is in the house, along with H's brother, and also h's best friend. The heroine keeps drinking upstairs, demands from the hero to "get rid of the father", gets butt naked and runs in that state from the guest room to his room and waits till he gets there and demands to be fucked. While her father is downstairs, waits to talk to her and is concerned for her, because she JUST broke off her engagement 🤡🤡🤡These are the characters I'm supposed to root for??? They keep behaving like assholes but always finding justifications for it on their heads. To me it's even worse, than if they were outright evil and cruel. At least then they'd have the guts to be honest.The smut could not save this book for me, because once I started despising the couple, there was no saving the situation.