What a load of ****.The h is a cold self-obsessed narc - And I could not relate with her at all!She left me cold and 🤮.Does JED think this fmc is an accurate portrayal of a strong woman?By depicting every other female in the book as weak and less - vampy, lazy, greedy, dumb, wh*res or cheats. Even the dirt under the fmc's shoes probably has greater worth than these other women in the story - mother, bff, aunt, old ladies, club wh*res (hate that label) et al.She catches her bf cheating on her with her bff - and coolly walks out without her heart missing even a beat.She then decides she hadneverloved him, so good riddance.Then later when the club elders fix her up with another guy - 'oh, I always found him hot'. The second guy miraculously becomes the club prez - cuz well, our fmc has to be the top b*tch. (And then lord/lady it up on the lesser females and show them their place.)There's no discernible connection between these two that I could see/feel.Oh and wonders, she has a real job - as a fin. advisor, and all the ppl who invest through her rake in the moolah. Wow, right?Ofc, her bosses are gay and they too adore her icy cold a*s. The only female who is not demeaned? - is her PA who ofc is subservient to her.Her mom goes from a normal mother - to be demonized as cold, selfish and money grabbing b*tch and is tossed aside. A MC father suddenly pops up after years to be adored by the fmc and vice versa.See the pattern?Okay, worse?The said bff had smexed the bf because'he'chased her and told her he loves her - - for club purposes that are always so noble like busting dr*g gangs etc., right? - - and the poor girl ends up in a brothel because that's her punishment, decided by the toxic men of the club.Yes, throw in 'dr*gs', and use that to punish a girl in the most horrible way. (Her mother never gets to meet her again, or even know of her fate.)So, we are above dr*g running - but not forcing women into brothels?I am no fan of ow and like to see them get their comeuppance, but this? Sickening!And mind you, no men gets punished in this ott way. They're just sent away.Only the women truly suffer.So a load of sexist toxic crap.With an inward-looking, narcissistic queen bee at the center who remains coolly obdurate and unforgiving of each transgression against her - big or small.I would like to get into this author's headspace (or not!) to understand her creating this fmc - because it feels as if the fmc has this toxic male mentality, like the men in the story, when it comes to other women in the story.Again, why every other female has to be diminished or demonized?And shown as powerless with no voice. Morally corrupt.Like slimy worthless creatures lurking in the background.Is there no other way to elevate a fmc?