This book was full of surprisingly great but unexpected turns.Rhian kills Japeth.Sophie kills Rhian.But nooooo. Sophie started to TRULY love Rhian and Rhian to ADORE Sophie. They were so great togheter, after Sophie "betrayed" Tedros and Agatha. I never saw that in Rhian. In the 4th book he was too good to be true, so there surely was something rotten in him. But actually, he tried to take his rightful throne. If I discovered I could take the throne and that I AM the rightful heir, I would have gone for it! Even if Rhian didn't play fair, lying and putting his *spat* twin *spat* to do the so called sacking of the kingdoms he still addimtted he wanted a better place. Even if the Woods were already perfect (except Tedros' coronation and getting the sword out of the stone and that stuff). The Storian had all the right to live, and yes, he could have talked to Tedros and convinced him, to try and pull the sword without the stupid game of the Lion and the Snake. "Stupid" will sound really mean, but it was horrible, really. Lying all the game and putting alies of you on the evil part and good part so you could win. Dirty thing for a king, if you ask me. But still, Rhian had a GOOD vision in mind. He wasn't evil after all. He even accepted not killing Tedros until some of the prisoners escaped with the help from Sophie and Agatha (Sophie messaged Agatha) and interrupted their wedding.But nooo.JAPETH kills Rhian.Sophie is traumatized.And Tedros thinks she betrayed him (like usual)"Now I see why every boy falls in love with you" - RhianPleaseeeee.First dumping.Now falling in love.Sophie, you got the right one.GO GIRL!!And the part with Sophie tricking Kei on the carriage and making him tell her about Rhian and Japeth. Please. She's a model.And Aja! All my RESPECT!Bodhi and Lathain.... Please, leave Priyanka alone. Don't you see Sophie?? SHE'S WAY BETTER! (I hope they are her age or older :|)The book was sooo dramatic and the next generation is introduced better and plays a part in this book. I just love them all. But Sophie is the best.She is my favourite character from the first book. I always thought I will like Agatha but no. Sophie suffered so much and Agatha hadn't done anything. I will explain.Well in the first book, I wanted so bad Sophie to be with Tedros that I was just crushed when I saw Agatha with him. I was just ready to give up the book. That because I wanted to give Tedros one more shot to choose Sophie. She cheated. She wanted to win him unfair. And she didn't save him in the confrontation with Hester in The Trial by Tale. Still, how could he POSSIBLY CHOOSE AGATHA?! I mean, I understand she save your life and everything, but that doesn't mean she loves you for the true you. It was the first time Agatha actually interacted pozitivly with him and after that: Agatha sees the real me and she doesn't love my for my looks, she loves my for my personality! TEDROS DEAR, SHE DOESN'T EVEN KNOW YOU! And with that, Agatha dumps Sophie, Tedros dumps Sophie, Sophie remains behind with all the pain, carrying the worst feelings in her life, being destroyed, and STILL she doesn't kill Tedros or Agatha even if she is pure Evil and everything. She just tries, okay? But then, surprise, she dies! And Agatha chose her. Good choice.Second book was my favourite.Still, Agatha chose Tedros. Sophie and Agatha return to School for Good and Evil, the School being school for girls and boys as their fairytale reopens.And Sophie tries to stop Agatha from meeting Tedros so she wouldn't be alone for the rest of her life. I find it really fair. But Agatha meets Tedros and Sophie follows her and stops her when she is in the School Master's tower with Tedros by throwing between them a pink flash. Agatha thinks Tedros attacked her. Tedros thinks Agatha attacked him. A lot of things happen and Sophie turns into Filip going to the school for boys to find the Storian and seal her story and Agatha's. Meanwhile Tedros fells in love with Filip as they spend their time by talking about their parents. In the Trial by Tale Agatha founds Sophie and Tedros togheter, Sophie being Filip and tells Tedros who Sophie really is. Even if Sophie hadn't done anything wrong, she was a great friend, Tedros hated her even more and went to Agatha. Sophie is dumped again just because she was Good. Just because she saved Tedros' life. Just because she brought him food. Just because she listened to him like Agatha never did. Just because she simply tried to make him happy. So she chose Rafal. Obviously. If someone loves you, you go to that someone. You go to the one that appreciates you, not to the one who disconsiders you. Brilliant. I wouldn't return to my friends that always dump me and treat my like I'm an animal or something. Or that simply use me for their own good.I'm the third book Sophie is almost happy with Rafal. Almost. She still thinks (because of the ring too) that she should be with Tedros. Of course, everything Rafal said to her about what her life would be if she followed Agatha and Tedros was true. I mean, she would be excluded. They have each other, and as we seen in the other books they don't actually appreciate Sophie. But for SOME REASON they need her. To make peace between them. To help them get over their problems togheter. That because, without Sophie, they can't be togheter. They will always be mad at each other like we saw in the begining of the third book. I saw this really really different from how Agatha and Tedros thought about it. You see, Sophie should abandon Rafal, the only person that loves her (let's let Hort out of the subject for a little while) and go to them so she could make their love stronger? She should abandon her life for them? And STILL she doesn't get anything in exchange? She has to trail after them like an animal for emotional support? I can't belive they even SUGGESTED AND THOUGHT ABOUT THAT. SOPHIE HAS A LIFE OF HER OWN, YOU KNOW. After she destroys Rafals ring, the ending is just gorgeous. She has herself. Because no one can really understand her (except Bodhi, Lathain, Rhian, Kei etc😂👌) And SURPRISE! She doesn't go with Agatha and Tedros to Camelot. Good choice.But, there is a fourth book. I appreciate Tedros for that thought, that he thinks he can't be in the same room without killing each other, kissing each other or a lot of people being dead. KISSING EACH OTHER. A really nice thought, right? Sophie should know about that. Now, Hort jumps to another girlfriend. Nicola. I don't like her. Something is wrong with her. She always has to prove how smart she is or to show off. Leave Sophie and Hoort alone! Hort is the only one she actually had until The Lion came in. Rhian. Too good to be true till she hold a sword to her spine. AND TEDROS STILL thinks Sophie is betraying the. He ALWAYS has that thought in mind. I really don't know what he got, these days...In the fifth book I love how Sophie tries to charm Rhian. And it eventually works. Too bad that right in that day he is killed by Japeth. So no one for Sophie again. And Tedros is still thinking Sophie is betraying him and Agatha. I wonder if he knows he is not the only one Sophie thinks about from the Woods. We will sure find out. Then the part with Kei as I said is ABSOLUTELY GREAT. I love how Sophie accepts herself and she really uses what she has. Now, one more thing I loved about the 5th book is how Tedros teases Sophie and Sophie teases back. AND how Hort and Tedros started to fight in the dungeon over Sophie. Fair enough to me :)So Sophie suffered a lot just because she did GOOD.That's why I like her. She deserves to win. But right know, that can't happen. Sophie worked a lot for her place that she still doesn't have. She went through everything with suffer. She always suffers in the dark. Alone.Then Agatha didn't work so much at her friendship with Sophie. She is the one that usually PUTS their friendship in trouble of disappearing :/ I mean, you probably like Agatha because she is a great example of someone who is underestimated. That until the second book. She probably is the princess of the story and has Tedros as her prince, but she actually hadn't done ANYTHING to reach this place. She had everything right in front of her nose. Professor Dovey which kept throwing her up, Professor Anemone which really believes in her and other professors in general. All she had to do is belive. She didn't even have to WIN Tedros' love. She had everything set in front of her by the Storian leaving her only to act the role. The only part where she really worked something out and where she truly chose to herself was when she chose Sophie in the first book over Tedros. And EVEN THAT couldn't work for her. She HAD to PUT THAT WISH. The princess returns, people :/. And then Sophie is left out. Well, Sophie HAD TO WIN Tedros' love and WORK in their story. Do I even have to mention that whenever Sophie, the only character in this book who really tried to do something of her own in that story, the one who didn't have a PATH LAYED OUT FOR HER, A CHOICE is considered a bad character, and nothing works out for her? Don't remind me. She built her own path that couldn't be bright because everything was stolen for Agatha. Everything good. And Agatha hadn't done A SINGLE THING for their friendship. In the first book, as I said, she chose her. OK. But in the second she dumps her. She nearly KILLES her. What friendship is that if the princess wants to kill the witch? If Sophie tries to kill Agatha I understand. She's Evil. But not our "perfect" Agatha.In this whole book Agatha was more like :I don't care about my friendship. I DON'T CARE SHE WANTED TO SAVE SOPHIE BECAUSE THAT'S A LIE. HER ONLY THING IN MIND WAS TEDROS. And Sophie? Sophie who invested a lot in their friendship? Sophie who worked for both? Sophie who always thought about losing her?That's why everyone's happy and togheter. Sophie doesn't have someone all to herself like Agatha has Tedros. So everyone is on the move, happy, somehow, if I can say that, and togheter. Everyone.Exept Sophie.