I don't enjoy writing bad reviews. It is, obviously, easier for a writer to make herself sound intelligent with a bad review than with a good one, which is most of the reason for my suspicion. Sneering at something implies that you're in a position to sneer from, but it doesn't require you to elaborate on what that position is, even to yourself. Increasingly, I get antsy around a certain cadence in prose—five-dollar words used imprecisely, snappy one-line paragraphs, paragraphs that make sweeping claims and hurry past providing examples—a cadence that seems aimed to stoke superiority, righteousness, and intellectual comfort. I get antsy because I've used that cadence, I've purposefully evoked those emotions, and I know that this is not a style that requires intellect or integrity in order to achieve an effect.Dowry of Blood is this kind of writing. I wish that fiction were a better home for this style than essays are, but it is a worse one. I generally enjoy being angry—to kvetch is an art (requiring entirely different skills from the sneering critique I describe above, I should add), and like most Jews I would consider myself socially lacking if I could not spontaneously improvise five tight minutes of stand-up comedy on the topic of Having Recently Had A Bad Time. I did not feel angry about this book. I felt sour and sad.The book pretends at darkness while flinching away from its own violence. It pretends at moral ambiguity while flinching away from that, too: it repeatedly passes off impurity of action for complexity of ethics, and temporarily felt shame for lived guilt. It pretends at intellectualism and poetics: it passes off “making reference to Christian beliefs” as the former and “use of Christian vocabulary” as the latter. Coming from a white person, this association is socially conservative and personally insulting.It pretends at being an exploration of abuse. This is the part where, if I were writing the sort of snappy rant that I might have written if I were really angry, I would say something like “Its thesis is that abuse is bad.” This would not really be fair—the book's thesis is that abuse is a verbal, emotional, financial, sexual, religious, and physical pattern of relationship behavior, containing honeymoon periods that give way to building tension and explosions, in which one person exercises control over another. This is true, which is why it is also the thesis of the Wikipedia page for “domestic violence”. But this sentence also is a little too pithy, and so let me say that the book feels less simplistic than immature. Every page is a breathless discovery—what happened waswrong!—a state of pure shock, pure abjection, pure innocence in a way which has nothing to do with either the heroine's sex life or her acts of violence against others (criminals, we are repeatedly reassured, a sentiment of shocking moral hollowness). Even the abuser's verbal abuse focuses entirely on the heroine's innocence: he decries her “obsession with justice”, her “moralism”, the fact that she is “charitable”, her desire to murder criminals rather than everyone, her piety. I am disappointed by this obsessive abjection, this obsessive innocence. I think it is dangerous.I'll move on to picking apart the book's craft, which will at least make me feel less helpless in the face of its general unsoundness.I'll begin by reworking a single sentence to let you know what we're dealing with. The narrator says “And as Magdalena wound her fingers around my wrists and covered my chest in hot kisses, calling me sister with that mischievous smile on her face, I couldn't help but wonder if I was being trained, too.” In the first instance, “wound” is not quite the right word—it's used for snakes, roads, and vines, and implies a coiling motion that fingers are not really capable of doing to wrists. In the second, I'm not sure why “chest” would be used rather than “breasts” in an erotic scene, since they rely very heavily on physical specificity for the reader to project into—is Magdalena kissing her entire torso from collarbone to waist? Third, Magdalena is described as taking three actions with her mouth at once (kissing, saying “sister”, smiling). This isn't impossible, exactly—presumably we are meant to understand that she does these things sequentially—but it's not good writing to put all three in one sentence and two in one clause. Fourth, “with that smile on her face” is a redundancy; we do not assume the smile is on her toenail. Fifth, “I couldn't help but wonder” is a sentence so deeply associated by meme with the television show Sex and the City that it belongs nowhere in a scene set in the year 1529, especially if what the narrator “couldn't help but wonder” is something about her relationship.On this last note there is really no attempt at historical voice in this book whatsoever. The prose is, of course, meant to be generally elevated—“Paris was happy,for a time”, “Shehad taken tolowering her voice”, “You always knew how to thaw my heart right whenI had resolved tofreeze it against you”. But these italicized phrases are not elevated or historically located by themselves. They are common in the prose of the nineteenth century, which is not the same. It is the equivalent of having American actors playing ancient Romans speak in upper-class British accents. In addition, they're inconsistent:right whenis intensely modern, located in a completely different register from the rest of the sentence. (Queerness, I should note, is present in this story but entirely unexplored. The narrator, a devout Christian born in the Middle Ages, never makes an attempt to reconcile her faith and her habitual extramarital queer sex—presumably because she is familiar with progressive American Christian discourse of the 2010s regarding Christ's accepting nature and therefore feels no need to revisit it in this book set over the course of the second millennium in Europe.)The heroine visits multiple cities over the course of the book. Vienna is described as “the seething, shouting mass of life outside my home”. Venice is described as “seething color and swirling masses of people” and “a whirl of color and sound”. Berlin is described as “minds all moving together in a great human sea”. Petrograd is described as “a swirling watercolor of browns and brass”. Paris is described as “a living, breathing thing, bursting at the seams”. A wharf is described as “noise and bustle swirling around us”. I genuinely don't feel that it's absurd to ask an author not to copy-paste her own descriptions.Metaphors include: “her dark eyes flashed like twin daggers”—I think the author would prefer “cut” rather than “flashed” for a dagger comparison, but perhaps she just did want any shiny object and daggers were sufficiently edgy, so to speak; “your mouth as close to my ear as the snake must have been to Eve in the garden”—to rely myself on an overused phrase, this metaphor is as subtle as a brick to the head; and my least favorite paragraph: “I was tired of being your Mary Magdalene... I was tired of groveling on my knees and washing blood off your heels with my hair and tears. I was tired of having the air sucked out of my lungs every time your eyes cut right to the heart of me.” I wish that the author had been this enthusiastic about naming specific body parts during the sex scenes. Mary Magdalene is not discussed in the story before this moment, nor afterward. The narrator has no personal connection with her other than being a generally pious person, but she identifies herself earlier in the story with Judith and with Jesus, rather than Mary Magdalene. I must also note again how deeply, deeply frustrated I am at the author's empty reliance on Christian imagery. The assumption appears to be that there is something so universal about Christian narrative and theology that every audience member will be highly familiar with them, deeply emotionally stirred by them, and recognize them instantly as the sign of an intellect that is deeper and more thoughtful than non-Christian intellects. This assumption is incorrect.The setting is painted on cardboard. I reference again the various “swirling masses” of the cities of Europe—no character is ever interested in leaving Europe, despite mentioning multiple incentives to do so—I need hardly tell you that no member of these “masses” is ever individuated or characterized. Every single object mentioned in descriptions is a plural: “all the new inventions flooding the scientific markets... lined up carefully on your worktables”, “crowded with blank canvases and half-constructed wooden frames”, “twenty or thirty members of the gentry” (“swirling around me”, of course). I was particularly struck by a room described with “Every detail, from the iron candle sconces on the wall to the brightly colored rugs underfoot, boggled my mind.” These are the only details of the room that we actually get. I think it is reasonable to ask to be more boggled than I currently am. There are very, very few actual scenes in this novel—nearly every single action is described in the imperfect past, rather than the preterite, which is hugely frustrating for those of us who enjoy seeing characters say dialogue or take actions.There is no sense that the world exists, is touchable, is real. Let me use a metaphor here of a Target: to a customer, a Target (or other big-box store) may be described as "shelves lined with groceries and appliances". To someone who has actually worked at a Target, it may be described as "Home & Patio, Storage & Organization, three of the medium woven black baskets left and four of the XLs". It is always worthwhile to try to snap out of looking at the world through the lens of a customer (though obviously it's understandable to do so if you are, in fact, shopping at Target today). It is lazy to look at the world through the lens of a big-box store customer if you are the inventor and builder of the imaginary Target. It is unacceptable to use the lens of a big-box store customer to describe five centuries of international travel and domestic life.This is a book which believes itself to be, and is being marketed as, courageous, erotic, dark, and above all intelligent. I don't enjoy writing bad reviews. I enjoy being bullshitted still less.