2 years and 2 months, 4,373,157 words, and 11308 pages later, thus concludes my journey with the Wheel of Time.It always feels odd talking about a book of this nature, due to the level of commitment I’ve given. It’s a bittersweet experience, there’s a lot to love, and there’s a lot to feel disappointment about (or even dislike), but it feels odd saying goodbye to these characters. You know them so intimately, whether you love or loathe them, it feels like people you have known for a long time. Wheel of Time is a series I love. It has a ton of flaws, if you see my prior reviews, you will know, but a lot to love. Which is a good segue to A Memory of Light, there’s a lot I love, aspects I feel disappointed upon and some I genuinely dislike. I’ve talked about it prior, but Sanderson taking upon the weight of WoT, and he was a relatively new author at the time, and concluding Jordan’s vision in this manner is nothing short of a miracle.Firstly, this is the perfect end to Rand al'Thor 14 book story arc. It’s evident Jordan had this in mind from almost the beginning, all of Min’s visions are fun to look back upon and seeing how certain prophecies comes to light. In general, most of the Two River folks had fitting ending. For a series of this size I wish we had more of a conclusion but considering the circumstances of Jordan’s passing it’s understandable.There’s a lot of this book that feels rushed, which is odd for a book of this length. There's a lack of multi-book payoff, some characters don’t even get conclusions at all, many plotlines just fade, the fates of certain antagonists, and there’s an introduction of new faction that felt cheap and should have been introduced books ago. The issues in this book, kind of stem from the series as a whole. It’s the mismanagement of certain plot threads in favour of ones that ultimately feel stagnant. These problems arose before the slog, but it’s mainly in the slog where certain plot lines feel directionless and some have incredible focus, which creates a disconnect. Jordan felt like he understood he went out of control, hence the massive course correction in Knife of Dreams. However, Jordan couldn't finish his vision, so Sanderson had to take reign and use various notes to get to the conclusion that he wrote. As a result, Sanderson had to cram a lot of things into the last 3 books. Lastly, the pacing of this book felt very uneven. It’s difficult to criticise Sanderson with the structure, but I do think overall he did a great job, however the beginning there’s simply too much action. At a certain junction the action feels a bit monotonous. However, once we arrive to the last battle, it evens out pretty well and delivers some of the best moments in the series.I say this above due to my overall love for the series. You are sometimes more critical of the works you love or want to improve because you enjoy them so much. So, what’s the strength? Well, as I said above, Rand’s arc was perfect. The beginning of the book had some character interactions that were beautiful, all of the Mat scenes are incredible. Like this is the book, where most of the Sanderson issues with Mat got completely ironed out with some differences. The majority of Rand’s POV chapters were brilliant and bitter, as we are leading up to the conclusion, and seeing everyone interact with each other before or during the Last Battle was great. The chapters after 37 were incredible, they're reminiscent of some of the best highlights of WoT, and overall, it was a cathartic journey. I loved seeing The Two River Folks interact with each other after certain characters were isolated from each other.Olver:blowing the horn was one of my favourite moments in the series. It’s soothing to read after what our heroes had to endure in the Last Battle. Beautifully echoing the Great Hunt. The last thing I have to note Olver reunion with Noel was very sweet.Lan:beating Demandred was great. I loved the lead-up to it—the Two River folks destroying the Trolloc’s with their bows as Lan is charging forward to duel him. His death was a great way to end Chapter 37: the Last Battle, giving that glimmer of hope near the end where all seems lost.Mat:I’ve said above, all of Mat's sequences were incredible. The world is ending, and Mat is still acting like Mat, his relationship with Tuon was actually a great one, as him being the leader of the Seanchan. I really felt his killing Fain was quite fitting, especially using that dagger. That said, leading up to that event was super disappointing. The dude does nothing for books 10–12 and appears in the prologue of book 13 briefly, then appears briefly near the end of book 14. I have to assume Sanderson had no idea what to do with him beyond reaching that conclusion, as it was shown in the epilogue Jordan mostly wrote.Androl (and Pevara):this is both positive and negative. Firstly, I love what Androl represents, especially in contrast to the Aes Sedai. The White Tower is all about power = authority, especially when it’s revealed in NS. The Aes Sedai aren’t equal, but there’s a hierarchy based on power. So, it’s refreshing a character, isn’t that, he just has a certain talent, but his actual innate power level is very low, so he compensates for it and earns the respect of his men. He’s a fun character that Sanderson wrote, plus Pevara is a ton more likeability with Sanderson at the helm. However, as a result, Logain is completely put aside. The dude arc wasn’t that satisfying after 14 books of build-up for Logain, and this was a result? After CoT and KoD, I was excited for the future of Logain, especially how he related to Rand’s plotline, then he just disappeared in the Sanderson books. There was some neat moments, it wasn’t a complete disaster, but it was so disappointing. The Black Tower as a whole just screams, that’s it? Plus Androl's final action to get Taim to escape, then the black tower felt like Deus Ex Machina. This also serves another issue of spending too much time on this character instead of the other characters that need more character depth. As a result, I do enjoy his involvement, but I don’t know if it was worth it. I do see part of the issue with Jordan not having enough scenes in the Dark Tower, plus in one-off chapters in the prologue or elsewhere, but still, this whole thread was disappointing.Demandred and Taim:I think Demandred ended up as a neat positive. The dude was like an antagonist for a video game and was super over the top, but he was actually fun to read. However, it is definitely not the best forsaken. That said I would have definitely preferred if Jordan stuck to his initial idea of Taim = Demandred as that would have had more weight. In general, Taim has to be the most disappointing figure of them all. He felt comical and lacked any depth he had previously, like in Books 6-11. I love the Egwene ending, especially reversing Bale Fire, that definitely felt Jordan, and that made sense, just as an antagnoist was whatever.Sharan:The same with Demandred, but even more so, what the hell were Jordan and Sanderson thinking? This has to be one of the dumbest decisions. Why introduce this faction this late in the game? I don’t buy it, it had two lines of foreshadowing in the entire series, so it’s fine. This felt like an excuse so Jordan-Sando could level the playing field. As a result, it really hurts the weight of the moments. Jordan excels in culture, making a group of people feel alive, yet Sharan didn’t feel like that at all. They didn’t really feel like people as they weren’t given enough time or care, which is baffling that we never even saw a Sharan POV in one of the prologues in the series. Slowly building them up so their arrival feels natural.Perrin:I loved most of his plotline, I really liked his pseudo-Buddy Cop adventure with Gaul in the World of Dreams. The final fight with Slayer was bloody excellent (especially the flicker flicker) and I loved seeing Lanfear again as she is one of the best Forsaken who are truly scary. I liked Perrin interactions with the cast especially with Rand and him observing the arrival of Moraine. One aspect I’m very mixed on is Lanfear faking her death. On one hand, it fits Lanfear's character but undermines Perrin's arc drastically. Him killing Lanfear with his own free will, killing a woman, not being forced to do so through compulsion. It’s a win-and-lose situation, but ultimately it hurts Perrin’s arc. I genuinely felt Sanderson handled it differently, like Lanfear manipulating him earlier on and then killing her with his own free will. I don’t think we lose anything if Lanfear lives or dies, as other Forsaken are still felt loose in the world, and other dark ones. Overall, Sanderson did a solid job considering the circumstances, as Jordan only had notes for Perrin after the Last Battle, which explains his absence in the event itself. Even in the epilogue, the Perrin POV was Sanderson, and the rest was Jordan. Which is sad but makes sense as his arc has been very messy throughout the series.Galad:honestly, I’m impressed by this character by the end. He went through a lot of self-evaluation, and his perspective was interesting. I do think Gawyn is a tool—the most preventable death in the whole series, however, his speech to Galad was somewhat nice, and Galad's action afterwards showing his honour. In the last two books, he was a pleasant surprise.Egwene:I’ve already talked about her final moment, so I will talk about everything else. Honestly, it was a pleasant surprise. After ToM, I was concerned about her, but here she felt like the stubborn woman from the Two Rivers. I liked her last interaction with the Two Rivers folks, and in general, her arc was great.Nynaeve:she is in my top 3 characters in the whole series, so I was disappointed we didn’t get a Nynaeve moment. She had that small scene near the beginning, but like 3 books and WH and so forth, she had those amazing Nynaeve moments. I know it makes sense that it's a trust thing in the cave, but I wish both she and Moiraine had more to do. I do like how all three of them (Rand) dealt with Mordin fate and the Dark one ultimately, that felt fitting and was very well foreshadowed throughout the series.Moiraine:Though I wished she had more to do in the second half of the book, I really loved her interactions in the first half with Rand. Her diffusing the situation of Egwene and Rand argument was so fitting.Thom:That one POV chapter he had was bloody amazing, it felt so in character for him to detect the fake versions of certain characters and guard the cave from intruders.Elayne:I’m most surprised by Elayne in this book, as I mostly liked her chapters. She had a lot of great moments throughout. I did wish we experienced Birgitte POV throughout the series and her memories slowly fading (which would have been amazing to explore), but I loved it the same. She has always been the bright spot in that plotline. I will say I wish Hanlon's storyline wasn’t even a thing by the time of AMOL, it felt out of place. However, Birgitte regaining her memories makes it feel like it was worth it.Aviendha:I really enjoyed her arc, trying to have the Aiel join the Dragon Peace to prevent that disastrous future for them. I wish we had more character moments with her, but what we got was great. Avidendha vs. Graendal fight was excellent, and Graendal lost. Graendal losing by the same powers that she actively used to destroy people's free will was fitting. Furthermore, a nice homage to Path of Daggers, reversing the weave. The Conclusion of the Forsaken and our antagonists have been all over the place, but this one was fitting. I also like how Graendal actually felt smart for once, unlike her involvement in ToM and TGS.Moghedien:Look, I understand why this is her fate, it’s so Jordan could write that sequel trilogy that he couldn’t write, unfortunately. That whole situation is unfortunate, but seriously, it felt pretty cheap. We pulled this same card with Eladia, and that wasn’t great. In general, the slave solution with the Seanchan felt very unfinished. Like Egwene gives an incredible speech to Tuon about how Sul'dam can channel, there is no hint of how it really affects the people whatsoever. There were some efforts to try to be the middle man, but it wasn't enough for the subject this series has been exploring since Book 2 and Book 8 onwards. I do understand Jordan probably would have tackled it, but I can only judge what we got here.Side Characters:WoT did a brilliant job with side characters. I’m not even talking about Jordan’s indistinguishable Aes Sedai’s, I’m just talking about characters in general and how they appear so naturally within the plot. An example is when Egeanin appears in The Great Hunt, and she feels like the protagonist of her own story, a fully realised individual who happened to be in the background. Then she naturally appears in Winter’s Heart and is part of Mat’s plotline. For all the fault of the slog, characters moved around so naturally that on some sides, they felt like chess pieces. Bashere, Hurin, and some others die, and you don’t feel much. Jordan side characters feel like they are protagonists in their own story, while Sanderson feels like they are there to make certain characters sad, like Rand. This is not a criticism of Sanderson in general, as it isn’t an issue in the Stormlight Archive. I assume there are barely notes or nothing on those side characters, which is why they are barely addressed or not at all. Sando is attempting to complete someone else's vision with limited resources, even if those resources are quite helpful. These resources from a man who lived in that world for a good chunk of his entire life, being his life’s work. So yeah, it’s going to feel weaker as a result.Rand:I’ve written so much about Rand that I don’t feel like there's a point. All I can say is that it’s the greatest character arcs in fiction. I loved sparing with Tam, interacting with two river folks, talking with Moiraine, Aviendha, and Mordin, and how his plotline is a philosophical debate with the Great Lord. On why balance exists, that his utopia will end up causing the same issues as the Dark Ones vision of the world, it being Rand forcing the pattern for characters to be a certain way instead of following their humanistic tendencies. Rand’s conclusion was bloody perfect, and I’m glad Jordan was able to write Happy Rand at the end. The body swap was beautifully foreshadowed and felt quite fitting. Especially reading the Min’s visions in retrospect.Epilogue:It’s an odd ending, like the final couple pages are perfect (anything related to Rand), especially the last line. It’s just that WoT became more than just Rand’s fate, which this book empathised the most, so it feels like those characters are not getting the conclusion they deserve. I do think if Jordan's health was good, this epilogue would have been heavily expanded while still being open-ended. It felt too rushed for a series of this magnitude. Like no mourning of Egwene in her funeral, no exploring the aftermath a little bit. Ultimately, I do like the ending. I wish it was longer, but it was damn fitting.P.S I loved the Nakomi situation, The Pipe, Nynaeve acting like Nynaeve, a fitting way for Mat arc becoming a father and continuing an adventure that we don't witness, the Loial moments was great, the Cadusane moment felt so fitting how she figured it out, and so forth. There were a lot of great moments!He came like the wind, like the wind touched everything, and like the wind was gone.In conclusion, I thank Robert Jordan for creating this story, and I thank Brandon Sanderson and Team Jordan for concluding Jordan’s vision. It isn’t perfect, but it’s something truly great. I love WoT. The journey wasn’t perfect, but it’s not one I will forget.There are no endings, and never will be endings, to the turning of the Wheel of Time.But it was an ending.8.5/10