“Babel, Or the Necessity of Trauma Porn”I can talk about the many problems I had with this book in terms of its length, its structure, its utterly paper-thin characters, and how goddamnedcondescendingit is, and you can find that discussion below. But I feel that I should start with the part of this book that broke me.There’s a concept often floated around when people talk about how to portray bigotry and prejudice in fiction, and it’s the concept that in portraying racist (or queerphobic, ableist, etc.) violence, authors should take care not to do so in a way that is traumatic to the audience who might share that identity. Otherwise, such a portrayal begins to feel like trauma porn for the majority, not an empowering or cathartic narrative for the marginalized.Babelfeels like trauma porn. It is an unceasing stream of racism and racist violence against its characters of color.Kuang’s commitment to showing racism is so intense that she even throws consistency out the window for the sake of it. In one chapter, Robin is described as having the same eye shape as his white father. Inliterally the next chapter, he’s made fun of for having narrow East Asian eyes.Kuang. What is the truth here? They can’tbothbe correct.I’m 100% sure the rejoinder here would be “well, the racism is historically accurate.” I haven’t studied this time period, so I’m not going to engage in any discussions about historical accuracy. But I will point out that “historical accuracy” is not an unassailable argument because historical accounts are never neutral, because the writer chose what to record and what to omit. And—aside from the fact that this book is historicalfantasy, anyways—any work of fiction is composed of a series of intentional choices on the part of the author.(Tangentially, I would also like to point out that RF Kuang has no experiences with anti-Blackness or the racism a brown Indian Muslim would face, so I’m not sure what gives her the confidence to delve so deeply into those descriptions.)So I ask: What is the purpose of this book? The people who don’t understand that Racism Is Bad are not going to be reading this book. The people who already agree that racism and colonization are bad are just going to have this message beaten into their heads by RF Kuang’s literary equivalent of a sledgehammer, because RF Kuang treats her audience as idiots who are incapable of understanding anything for themselves.I’m speaking as an Asian American who does not usually consider anti-Asian racism a personal trigger. I’m speaking as someone who has loved plenty of books that have racism as their central theme:Ace of Spadesby Faridah Abike-Iyimide,Legendbornby Tracy Deonn,Disorientationby Elaine Hsieh Chou.But I foundBabelsimply too exhausting and too depressing to read past the 55% mark. After reading “Chinese people are inherently dirty and lazy and inferior” for the dozenth time, I did not feel enlightened or filled with righteous anger against anti-Asian racism.I felt that RF Kuang had done the literary equivalent of beating me black and blue with a hammer, and I gave up, because my mental health is worth far more than this book.*I have plenty of criticisms ofBabelon a craft level, enough that I’m honestly astonished that it has been so well received when it, in many ways, feels like a massive step back from The Poppy War trilogy.Longer is not always better; or, the pacing of this book was all over the place and the characters are flatter than paper cutouts.Fantasy authors who have just written their first book are discouraged from throwing every single cool idea they have into one manuscript and ending up with a 200K+ word behemoth that they swear they cannot cut down. “Kill your darlings,” and all that. But despite not being a debut,Babelfeels so excessively long and self-indulgent. It felt like Kuang showing off every 1830s reference she could possibly cram into the book to shove her research in the reader’s face. Kuang crams in references to historical events and narrates them with the style of the driest history textbook imaginable. This book was just soexhausting, not just to read, but even to listen to on audiobook (despite the narrator’s fantastic performance).Simultaneously, none of the length is spent on what actuallymatters. The characters are so one-dimensional, as if they mainly exist as canvases for racist violence to be done to them (or for spouting racism, in the case of Letty). Robin doesn’t have any emotional reaction to meeting another Chinese person for the first time in six years—someone who is also hisfamily member—for example.In general, I don’t understand why Robin Swift was the protagonist of this book. He had virtually no personality; he feels more like a puppet than a real person. The motivations he has for going either with or against the Hermes Society (the group that is opposed to Babel and the British Empire) feel so incredibly weak. He is never given the opportunity to come to the conclusion that Babel is bad on his own; no, he has to betold, after a mereone dayat Oxford, by the Hermes Society that Babel is evil and therefore Robin should join the rebellion. In her haste to make sure the readers all know Racism And Colonization Are Bad, RF Kuang robs Robin of the ability to drive the plot of this book. Instead, he’s swept along by the convictions of others, and his character suffers as a result.This same creative choice also destroys what seemed to be RF Kuang’s original intention: trying to portray academia as an alluring, magical world that students want to be a part of, only to eventually realize its rotten underpinnings. Robin doesn’t have any time to fall in love with Oxford after asingleday (no, I’m not counting the three or so days he spent with Ramy before classes started, because you can’t love academia if you haven’t even taken a single class?) before the Hermes Society comes along and tells him Babel Is Evil.A more compelling narrative choice would have been to have the Hermes Society prompt Robin to investigate Babel and come to the realization himself that the institution he loves is supported by colonization and racism—which also would have given Robin some sorely needed agency and character development. Not to mention it would have added tension and propulsion to the plot, which often feels like it’s plodding along without anything to move it forward other than Robin’s need to graduate, until the Hermes Society pops up again at random. As it is, there is so little tension in this book; RF Kuang never withholds information when she has the chance to remind us that Racism Is Bad.Speaking of Robin, I’m not convinced his representation as a biracial person is all that good. This isn’t my lane, so I don’t want to harp on it too much (and would welcome ownvoices perspectives), but it didn’t strike me as plausible that he could pass both for a white person and for a non-biracial Chinese person.There’s a reason “show don’t tell” is taught to amateur writers; or, the book treats readers as idiots.I absolutelycould not stand how condescending RF Kuang was in this book.From her author’s note at the start, I had a bad feeling. It comes off as aggressive, “don’t you dare question my portrayal of Oxford.” And look, if it had been written as a neutral explanation instead of a manifesto—“Here are the places I deviated from exact history and these are my reasons why”—it would have been fine. Interesting, even.But as it is, it really sets the tone for the rest of the book.There is so. Much. Telling. Kuang doesn’t trust any of her readers to understand what she’s saying; no, she has to follow up with an explicit explanation that This Is Bad. Imagine a movie adaptation of this book showing Robin physically beaten by his guardian and then immediately having a voice-over explaining that this behavior was Abusive And Bad. That’s exactly what RF Kuang does with narration.Because apparently we are all idiots, since none of us have two master’s degrees and a PhD from Yale.(I also have to point out that RF Kuang explaining that she wanted to portray oysters as delicacies inBabel, despite that being historically inaccurate, simply because oysters were a delicacy to her when she was as Oxford, not only smacks of the highest degree of self-centeredness but also makes me question her integrity as a historian. Theinterestingpart about writing historical fiction is trying to understand what is the same and what is different from the modern day, not assuming people lived the same way back then as they do now.)RF Kuang wants us to believe that Robin loves his cohort (Ramy, Letty, and Victoire), but she justtellsus this instead of showing us. The “found family” aspect felt incredibly weak, especially since Letty feels like a stock “racist white girl” stand-in. I could not buy the idea that the four of them viewed each other as family when three of them are people of color and Letty kept saying racist things to the rest of them. I nearly laughed at the part where Letty was supposed to be in love with Ramy, the brown Indian Muslim man who is constantly mad at her for saying things like the British had the right to be in India.Speaking of romance, at least in the first 55% of this book, Robin and Ramy’s relationship is soweak, with absolutely zero chemistry, that I would flat-outforgetthat Robin and Ramy were anything other than classmates for a hundred pages at a time until the book hit me over the head with a scene in neon lightstellingme “these two have Romantic Feelings for each other!” I don’t know if it improves later on, but I am disinclined to ever read a romance by RF Kuang when this one was so poorly written. (And I feel the need to point out that this isn’t the first time RF Kuang has shoved a poorly written gay romance into her books.)(I am once again begging people who are looking for queer romances to read the plenty of queer genre romances, in either traditional or indie publishing.)To quote another review—fuck the footnotes. They were either pieces of information that were critical to the story and therefore should not have even been footnotes, or extraneous pieces of backstory that should have been cut but RF Kuang just could not help herself from making this book as long as possible, or condescending “IN CASE YOU DIDN’T REALIZE, THIS PERSON IS RACIST” diatribes. RF Kuang writes as though she thinks her readers are children who can’t tell that she’s writing purposefully racist dialogue so she needs a footnote to explain.And yet, despite Kuang hammering in most of her messages with a sledgehammer to the reader’s skull, her portrayal of Letty is weirdly ambiguous. Despite the fact that Letty often says racist things (see: her opinion on the British in India above), her friends, who are all people of color, frequently defend her, so…what is the intent here?(I was especially dying when Victoire claimed solidarity with Letty because they were both women, while talking to Ramy,a brown man, and Robin. As if the misogyny experienced by white versus Black women isanythingalike. I’m sorry, but why has no one commented on this?)Superficial complexity, underlying plot holes; or, parts of the plot feels like it came out of a YA dystopian story.The most compelling part of the book, for me, was the fantasy element. Even then, there is a huge plot hole in the story. If silverworking only works for people who can “dream” in multiple languages,youcannotconvince me that both Professor Lovell and Professor Chakravarty, who learned Mandarin as a second language, are capable of dreaming in Mandarin when Griffin (Robin’s half-brother) can’t? If they could both learn Mandarin and become fluent enough to dream in it, why couldn’t they train Griffin to do the same? This is never explained.But the part that killed me the most was everything having to do with the Hermes Society.I cannot get over Robin being told that the Hermes Society has to be so careful because they’ll get tortured to death if Babel ever catches them, blah blah blah, while at the same time Hermes is hiring the literalworstcandidates to help them. Robin and his friends cannot lie to save their lives and get caught stealing from Babel, not once, but multiple times. And yet the Hermes Society was so keen to recruit them?At one point, Robin tells the Hermes Society he’s concerned that Babel’s security measures have been upgraded. Guess how they respond?A) “Oh damn, guess we’re going to have to reassess our plan since none of us want to get caught and tortured to death, like we told you we were afraid of before!”B) “Whatever. Everything will be fine. You’re being overly paranoid, Robin.”If you chose B, you were correct.I’m just. I’m lying on the floor here, staring at the ceiling and questioning my entire view of reality if this is the Adult fantasy that’s being called a “masterpiece.” I’ve seen far less ridiculous Adult fantasy books get ripped to shreds for being “too YA,” yet somehowBabelisn’t?ConclusionI tried, I really did, to reach the ending of this book, because I saw some spoilers in other reviews that I wanted to be able to discuss myself.I don’t agree that translation is inherently an act of violence. And I would have hadplentyto say about most of the characters of color dying in the end, including the two queer men of color.But I couldn’t. Because it’s not worth wasting any more of my time on this.As a work of fiction,Babellacks a compelling narrative due to its poor pacing and unbelievably flat characters. As a work of history,Babelcannot be considered as even anattemptat objectivity. Not when the text and the footnotes feel, as others have pointed out, like RF Kuang is breathing down your neck, telling you exactly what you’re supposed to think about the book instead of being a professor guiding students to form their own conclusions. (And because I have no chill anymore about this book, I’d like to state for the record that there is at least one instance of RF Kuang misconstruing real historical events in order to suit her narrative.)Do you know how much it takes to cancel an author for me personally? An author has to be a TERF or a racist or a queerphobe, basically.And yet, I never want to read an RF Kuang book again.If I wanted to be lectured at, I would go back to college/grad school. Except even most of my professors from law school didn’t treat their students like idiots who were incapable of understanding what they had to say.*mic drop*