Edit: I found the screenshot of the original release from 2011 of The Alpha Alternative. Also - GR deleted part of my review after it was posted, so no more good stuff.The Alpha Alternative, online: It's missing the above very last paragraph from Barrons talking directly to KMM. But since this was made canon inBurned, I guess that last paragraph is pointless. Which makes me rage beyond all levels of rage.Serious spoilers to come. Don't click if you haven't read through Chapter 3 ofDarkfeverand/or read this scene.Before I get into the issues I have with this being reality, let me just talk about the snippet's worth without that baggage. This is supposed to be a 'bonus sex scene from JZB's POV.' Well, it succeeds in one aspect. It's in Barrons' POV. Sex scene? Not so much. It's a rehash of the conversation that Barrons and Mac have at the Clarin House, with loads of Barrons internalizing. Then there's mention of an awesome 4 hours of sex, every-which-way you can imagine, but no details. Kind of boring, honestly. And then we're done.Meh. I was hoping for something a little closer to Book 4, Chapter 4...that maybe took placeafterShadowfever. That would have been epic.Okay, so now onto my issues about changing the story here to suit this "bonus" scene. First, in the original version, Barrons says to KMM something along the lines of 'there. you got the sex scene you wanted. now you have to decide if it's true or a lie. Words. You're always wanting them.' I chose to believe that it was something made up, because of a variety of reasons.Supposedly all this stuff happens, then Barrons realizes that Mac wasn't ready and will blame him, hate herself, and never accept it, so he ERASES HER MEMORY OF IT. WTF?! Seriously, what.the.fuck? Look, I know Barrons is a HUGE DOUCHE. He's a fucking asshole. If I met him in real life I would kick him, knee him in the face and run away. Fast and far. However, he's the asshole that I love in the books. This scene...crossed a line. Before, he'd steered Mac where he thought she needed to go, he'd done things for her protection without her permission, he'd goaded, and tested, and trained her. He wasn't particularly nice about it. But he never took her choices from her. She always, always, ALWAYS had the power of choice (excepting Priya period). Period. And this erased ALL OF THAT. Fuck that.Problem Number 2: Details don't match up. The conversation couldn't even be kept the same. Seriously, KMM? You couldn't go back toDarkfeverand ensure that you had them saying the same words to each other in the same order? But that's not the worst of it - the worst is that at the end of the scene inDarkfever, Mac is bruised from his arms around her ribs (and that's all she speaks when she mentions her injuries), but at the end ofThe Alpha Alternative, she's apparently bruised in other places because of how he grabs and holds onto her during their no-holds-barred sex marathon. *rolls eyes* That means it didn't happen. There's the fact that Barrons rips a button off her jeans (something I'm sure she'd notice in her limited wardrobe, but it's never mentioned inDarkfever). Didn't happen. There's the fact that at the end ofThe Alpha Alternative, Mac is wrapped in a sheet when Barrons erases her memory and lets her remember only the conversation and threat....but inDarkfevershe doesn't mention (with alarm) suddenly being naked in his presence. Did.Not.Happen.A fun scene that was Barrons fucking with us - I could have gotten behind that. A scene that was completely made up. Sold. But no, KMM wasn't happy with that. She had to go and make it 'real.'Burnedindicates that this actually happened and Mac gets back the memory at some point. It's manufactured drama. What a load of bullshit.That's right, I'm calling bullshit.Now, looking back, I think this is the beginning of the downhill slide that becameIcedandBurned. KMM stopped writing the story that she had planned out, started writing bullshit for the fans, and everything got all fucked up. Once upon a time she said that the Fever series came to her in one long stream, complete and ready to be told. All she had to do was transcribe it. I believe it, because the first five books (Darkfever, Bloodfever, Faefever, Dreamfever,andShadowfever) are masterful and there's not a single contradiction in them. Then we get to this, toIced, toBurnedand it all goes out the fucking window. Nothing we knew is true anymore.*throws book* Fuck this.This is why I honestly choose to believe thatThe Alpha Alternative,Iced, andBurnedare fan-fiction (written by the author, but still). I hope, with everything in me, that she manages to turn it around inFeverborn, though I'm not holding my breath.Merged review:Seehereandherefor my pre-read thoughts (took up a whole damn review section! I ran out of room!)January 2015 Initial Read:First things first, this cover. I hated it from the moment it was revealed. I mean, COME ON! We'd gone from beauties like this:Beautiful. Each and every one of them. Then we get that monstrosity up there. It telegraphs sex. I guess that's pretty fitting because it's damn near all anyone in this book thinks about. That cover did not fill me with a great deal of hope, though. Not that I had a whole lot of it to begin with.Icedmade me rage. I won't get into it here, but you can check out myreview. Then there was the whole testing of the bond between Mac and Barrons that's alluded to in the blurb. I went into this book with some serious reservations. On the other hand, this is Karen Marie Moning! The author that blew me away in the original five books of the Fever series! I have faith! I had hope! I couldn't wait to see her make me eat my words of hate and irritation atIced.SPOILERS forBurnedare clearly marked in this review, but fair warning - thereare going to beSPOILERS forDarkfeverthroughIceddiscussed.Burneddid not do that for me.So, It took me about 3 days to read this book, only reading a few hours a day, because I spent the entire time taking notes. In the end I have over fifteen pages of notes on this book, and a severe disappointment - but again, I have hope (why, yes, I might be a masochistic optimist) for the future of the series.Instead of the consuming story I had hoped for, I was treated to 400 pages of the author explaining everything that I, as a reader, was too dense to understand inIced, sprinkled with a few truly great moments and teasers. Yes, I complained - a lot - about the adult, immortal men inIcedlusting over Dani, a 14-year-old-girl and abusing her. Yes, I said, on more than one occasion, that if KMM wanted to include sex (or innuendo) in this series I wanted it to wait until Dani was older. I don't think that's too much to ask. I was told by the author in interviews that I'd read the story wrong.That went over well.So, KMM took toBurnedto explain exactly how wrong I was. Every.Single.Thing I had an issue with inIcedis contemplated, dissected, discussed and thought about. That's not even counting the moments where previous canon is being re-written. Things that were clearly stated in the previous six books were suddenly not the same. Facts are twisted. All of it telling me how wrong I was in my interpretation of the events that occurred. From multiple character points-of-view. There were meta-speeches in characters minds repeating the same words I've read KMM say in interviews. I can't even say how much this pisses me off. SHOW me I was wrong, don't tell me; don't have (multiple) characters TELL me. I want to SEE that I was wrong, not hear it. I've been hearing you, KMM, say how wrong I was for the last couple of years. Luckily, this is the only real rage-inducing thing I experienced while reading, and I'm pretty much over it. I get it. I do. KMM took a lot of flack and answered a lot of questions about the choices she made inIced. Pedophilia was brought up frequently, frequently enough for her to address it in a FAQ (which has since been removed from her blog). That's bound to put anyone on the defensive. So I'm trying not to be too mad about this. I just wish that she'd not felt the need to cram this stuff down my throat and let the story speak for itself.They fence me in with teenage rules that don’t hold me for shit, seeing how I grew up. You can kill but don’t cuss. Break any rule necessary to save the world but don’t watch porn or even think about having sex. How do they come up with this stuff--hold parental powwows for brainstorming diametrically opposed ethics?You probably know, if you've read myIcedreview, that Ryodan was my biggest problem in its pages. The vibe that he gave off when he was with Dani - one of waiting for her to grow up (she's FOURTEEN, and he's been watching her a LONG time), so he could have the woman she'd become - squicked me out. Then there's the abuse: holding her without food or water for three days, becausereasons; slamming her face into a stone pillar,repeatedly; breaking her finger...Yup. I hated him. I hated everything about him. Prior toIcedI had kind of liked Ryodan. I didn't know enough to love or hate, but I was leaning towardslike. Then all of that went down - and honestly that felt kind of out of character, too - and I'm not sure I'll ever like the bastard again. I can love an asshole - see Barrons; I can get down with manipulative - see Barrons again; I can handle secretive - hello? Barrons still; but abusive and a pedo vibe? Hard pass."That's not why I watched over her.""Bullshit. We all saw the woman she could become."Anyway, that's rehashing the past. However, that's something that KMM excels at inBurned, so I guess I'm not too far off point. In these pages we learn that everything we thought we knew...we were wrong. Ryodan's not an abusive asshole - he didn't mean to break her finger, heforgothow fragile humans were; he didn't hold her for three days, chained in his basement, because he's a controlling freak - he did itfor her own-fucking-good. There wasn't a pedo-vibe to his interactions with her, he was a guardian angel, protecting her, being her pillar, holding the roof up while she re-laid her foundation. What-the-eff-ever. I'm not buying what you're selling, KMM. No matter how many different characters sit and extol Ryodan's virtues, realizing what anice guyhe is.I find myself questioning everything I thought I knew about Ryodan. Running prior conversations through my mind, realizing the man I believed moderately intelligent and highly manipulative of others--to their own detriment and destruction--is in fact highly intelligent and enormously manipulative of others, but I've begun to suspect it's because he's trying to fix what he perceives as the things they want fixed but don't know how. He sees the bird's-eye view and takes the hard, catalytic actions. Unsettling, disturbing to those of us that don't, makes it easy to call him bastard, heartless.But why would he bother?There are only two possibilities: either he wants whatever goal he will achieve by altering that person, or, unfathomable as it is, he cares about the world he pretends to scorn, and the people in it.Now, maybe, just maybe, if I'd beenshownthat I was wrong about Ryodan, instead of having every character possible think about it, talk about it, and reflect on it, then I might have eaten my words. I still would have hated what he'd done, but I might have grown to like him again. There wasonemoment in the book where we were shown that Ryodan might be kinder than we've previously seen - his interaction with Jo - however, it's so heavy-handed, especially on top of all the virtue-extolling everyone else is doing, that it just made me roll my eyes. Take away? Ryodan's not a bad guy. In fact, he's a saint.Check.This is already getting long, so I'm just going to skip to what I feel like was the checklist for this book.1.	Ryodan's an abuser and giving off strong pedo-vibes?No! He's a nice guy! Here, let me tell you!Check.2.	Dani's too young?We can fix that. Into the Silvers, you go, my girl.Check.3.	We miss Mac!Ahh. Well, she can be the narrator again.Check.This wouldn't have bothered me nearly as much if Mac didn't turn into a passive idiot. At one point she goes around blurting out SERIOUS secrets - not just to anyone, but to the fucking UNSEELIE PRINCES. Are you fucking kidding me?4.	What's she been up to?Recap. Recap some more. Recap again. Recap stuff you just were there to experience.Check.5.	End scene ofIced, with Mac holding the Spear on Dani and being pissed at her, not make sense?Explain it away. She didn't know. Don't mind the previous stuff you've been told. It'll change as needed.Check.The manufactured drama between her and Mac in order to get her into the Silvers? Irritating. Mac, suddenly, doesn't know how she feels? Didn't realize that she was still blaming Dani? Regardless of the fact that she'd already worked through this inShadowfever? Whatever. Rewrite that history.6.	Christian's too creepy.Can't have that. Fixed.Check.The miracle fix of the love-triangle, too. *rolls eyes* Makes me wonder why it was there in the first place.7.	Pedophilia? No way!Meta-speeches by several characters. That'll get the point across.Check.8.	More about the Nine - we must have it!Insert plot-device to allow us to spy on them, getting much more intimate with their thoughts and feelings - which apparently they talk about in private.Check.Invisibility cloak for Mac!! Now she can spy on everyone! And can I say how much I hated that she felt the need to spy on Barrons. WTF? How about you stop being a passive idiot and go talk to the man that's always had your back, always saved you, and always kicked ass for you? Gah, Mac, you're pissing me off.One last thing I'm going to complain about...no, two last things. One: Mac's boring internal monologues got on my last nerve. I skimmed a lot of them. There were pages and pages and pages of her telling me stuff Ialready knew. I know some people complained about these in the first five books, but Iswearshe wasn't this bad. I guess I'll find out when I re-read. I haven't re-read the books in several years (granted I've re-read them several dozen times so I know them well) but I don't need to be hand-fed every single bit of information. And I know what a freakinglinchpinis!Two: the focus on sex! O.M.G. Honestly. There's a freaking catastrophe happening around every corner! How about focusing on some of them? The random inserts of sex, thoughts of sex, and voyeuristic viewing of sex throughout the book was just...gratuitous.Okay, I lied. I'm going to talk about one more thing I didn't like. Going back to the Dani-age thing. Yes, I wanted her older, but I wanted toseeher grow up and become the person she was meant to be. Even if it was in snatches, gradually, whatever. I didn't just want it to happen. And the way it happened? Not loving it. I see where KMM is going with this, and I get it, but I think it's the easy way out - and I never thought of KMM taking the easy way.I actually hate this. I think it's a cheap trick. How I can see this being resolved is going to give the best of both worlds - Dani's personality and character, along with Jada's kick-ass, sex-kitten, world-weary mind and body. That'll make it okay for Ryodan to have her. *sigh* I'll wait to see how it plays out, and hope for something more, but I'm really bummed that I didn't get to see her evolve at all. Now it'll just be one more thing that happened off-page.Shit. I lied again. Last thing. I promise. I hate, hate, hate,hatethat Barrons calls Mac, Ms. Lane still! The intimacy that was gained inShadowfeveris apparently gone. Now they're "islands." Then there's some irritating, manufactured drama that is completely pointless. I could not believe how much drama Mac allowed this to cause.Speaking of Mac (no this isn't another "thing"), she's no longer the kick-ass, Mac 5.0. She reverted to Mac 2.4 or something. She's passive, in the extreme, a mere narrator for events happening around her, and lacking in any initiative. Apparently, she's done what she came to do, and the rest of the time she's going to sit around watching her version of "reality tv" - and don't get me started on that. She's just lost everything that made me love her. Every once in a while I would catch a thought or action that flitted through her head, but mostly I was amazed that this was the same Mac I'd previously fell in love with.And so I remain, as Barrons would pithily say, idiotically passive.The other effect her passivity has is making her interactions with Barrons seem ... less, somehow. He's the same asshole that I love, but without Mac strong it makes him seem even more an asshole.Okay. I'm done now with that. I swear.