update 10-08-2024Okay! I went ahead and read the first book, and I'll admit, I love this world, even though I wish it had more descriptive action scenes. But now I understand a bit more. I bumped up my rating by a whole star because I couldn't get this one line that some characters use to describe the MMC out of my mind—it was just so ridiculous, hahahaha!They used to call him ‘The Black Hole’ ‘cause so many people just disappeared around him.---------------------------2 starsThe book had an interesting twist, but I found that the characters didn’t feel as real as I had hoped, and the writing was a bit repetitive. There wasn’t much happening in terms of major events—it took the whole book for them to fix the goddamn windows! HahahaAlso, although the main couple’s focus could be seen as the epitome of romantic bliss, it leaned more towards a YA vibe, which felt out of place considering that most of the characters were centuries old—why did they act like teenagers?There was also the uncomfortable fact that the MMC, who was incredibly old, had feelings for the heroine when she was "technically a minor" in their world. My concern might have been less prominent (but not forgotten) if the author hadn’t emphasized this detail repeatedly— it was mentioned multiple times, even joking about him being a lecherous man. They kept repeating that, while he refrained from acting on his feelings, it was not because it felt wrong, but because it was illegal, which gave off a predatory vibe that was hard to overlook.Overall, the character development and world-building were there, but they felt a bit flat, like they didn’t fully come to life. The story still carried a strong sense of family and had a good ensemble of characters; there was a spark, but it didn’t quite ignite the way I expected. The occasional grammatical errors and the less polished writing style also took me out of the story at times. I think this might have been due to the many POVs, which I wasn’t entirely used to ( and this surprised me because I’ve read a LOT of reverse harem stories with multiple POVs, but here it was a lot to take in).Honestly, I think this would have shined even brighter as a streaming series.