First re-read: 20.10.14Second re-read: 23.04.15Third re-read: 13.11.2016Ummm....I think I need to let go of Ryder, or I'll never, ever, get a man. Seriously. He holds my heart so fucking close that I ... I don't know what to do. Man, I love Ryder to fucking much. Cyn's great, of course, but Ryder...damn, he's my fucking fantasy.“Never challenge me, I promise that you will lose. Every. Fucking. Time.”Quick basic facts:Genre: - (Adult) Paranormal RomanceSeries: - Series, Book OneLove triangle?-No, not really.Cheating?-No.HEA?-No, cliffy.Favorite character?- Ryder Dé DanannWould I read more by this author/or of series?- Do I even have to answer that? If so, yes!Would I recommend this book/series?- Fuck yes.Will I read this again in the future?- It's Ryder, what do you think?Rating- 4.5-5 *fucking fairy* stars.First read review:Fighting Destiny by Amelia HutchinsSyn is scared. She should be fucking terrified. I want her and nothing will stop me now. Not even her newly risen love, if he gets in the way he will really go to his grave, I own him now. Another fucking pawn, on my growing board. His supposed death broke her, I intend to pick up those pieces and use them to get inside her beautiful fucked up mind.When Syn, a kick-ass-heroine witch, started working out on a strange assignment, lead to one of the most gruesome murder mysteries of their times. Her friends and the Dark Fae are set and determined to find out who is killing off Fae and Witches alike... While trying to found out who the murderers are, Ryder is pulling Syn further in under his spell, despite her better judgment. Syn and her friends can’t trust anyone and nothing is as it seems on the surface – not even herself.The Dark Prince stood before me, his hair so black that it almost appeared blue in the lights. Golden eyes stared at me, no emotion in their endless depths, at all. He was the most beautiful thing I had ever seen.Ryder usually get's what he wants, but he never expected that he would want a snappy, irritated witch. He didn't expect to get Syn in his plans. He wants Syn like he never wanted anyone before and he hates it. He loves control, he needs it, and so does Syn. Syn hates fairies because of her brutal past. So when she's pressed in to a corner, she has no choice but to agree to work for the Prince of the Dark Fae. She's forced to sign a contract, which she of course is stupid enough not to read before she does...“I’m not a piece of fucking property, I cannot be owned!”“Quite the opposite, you are mine. As of right now, you belong to me Pet.”Syn is a witch who takes shit from no one. She's snappy, fast and powerful. She's what you could call a kick-ass-heroine. Syn is strong and has a really good heart, and at the same time she doesn't make herself weak because she has a kind heart. She's been trough hell and back again, and she still is standing, which she deserves a hell of a lot credit for! Syn's the kind of person who really learns from her mistakes and she makes the pain and the anger she feels to become stronger, to fight her fears. Syn's got a biiiiig mouth that she uses a lot, and has her perfect comebacks. She's actually funny as hell.It won’t be enough to sate the hunger I feel inside for her, but it will be enough to brand her skin and mark her as my own. Then no one can question who she belongs to. She’s mine. And I will have her in every fucking way possible, until she becomes a problem. I’ll cross that bridge when I get to it. Until then, I plan to take her until she only knows one name—mine.Ryder, got damn Ryder, the Prince of the Dark Fae.. Powerful, dangerous, sexy as fuck. He's stubborn and dominate, and hot as hell. He's rich, overbearing egotistical ass of a bastard who gets exactly what he wants. If he plays a game, well... he always wins.. Ryder's the guy your parents would NEVER agree to dating their daughter. But damn, he's irresistible! He's got one hell of a dark side, and a healthy person would stay the hell out of his way. Though he's incredible dangerous, you still get to see soft sides of him, where Ryder's gentle and caring, and you simply can't help but to fall for him. He's protective, and possessive as fuck. Ryder's smart, and knows how to play, and he's an really old fae. Ryder's really mysterious, and doesn't really share his personal life."..Love is more than just feeling something Syn, it’s the connection of two souls that intertwine and cannot be without the other. It’s not just saying you love someone, its showing them with every fucking breath you take, every look. It just is, simple as that. That kind of love doesn’t die. It withers the soul without the other to keep it alive. Eventually, it turns you bitter and cynical.”Ryder and Syn's story was impressive. I really loved how their relationship developed from hate to 'kinda friendship' to perhaps more...“Be as that as it may, I told the guard you were mine. You stole my car.”“Borrowed it I did, return it I will.”Oh bloody fucking hell.“Okay Yoda, can I have the woman whose body you stole back?”“My body it is, yours I am not. Dead I speak until drained I am,” I smiled unable to help myself.I love this book! It's was incredible and well written. Amelia Hutchins really know's how to capture a reader! I was obsessed after the first couple of pages... The book didn't really get boring at all, and something happened all the time. You got the information you needed, and it's never got too much.. Sometimes in other books you get a lot of unnecessary info and it's sometimes makes the book boring and hard to read. But Fighting Destiny gave you exactly what you needed and nothing more. I love how Amelia wrote the characters! I also love that she even wrote in Ryder's POV, which was great, cause then you get the see what's on his dark mind.. In my opinion, I felt like Ryder got softer towards Syn on each POV from him. Which made me love him even more.. Damn him!“I’ll be strong for you Syn, if you need it. You don’t always have to be the strong one, I’ll be your glue if you want to crumble, I’ll hold you together,” he said lifting his eyes and meeting mine.“And what if you’re what’s making me crumble Ryder, what then?”His lips lifted into his sexy smirk. “Then I’ll put you back together. I will never tear you down Syn. I will always protect you from anything and everything that would. I’ve yet to find anything in this world or any other who can take me on—keep that in mind,” he said lifting his eyes to meet mine before he started to turn away.I was startled by his words and what he had said earlier when we were dancing. He didn’t like me, did he? “That’s what I’m afraid of.”I felt connected with Syn and it was awesome. Like, as soon as I started to read everything disappeared except the book. This book had it all! A dominated alpha male, a kick-ass-heroine, sexy sweet sex, friendship and loyalty, tears and laughter. I can't wait to read the next book. Can't wait for the story about Syn and Ryder to continue!Rate: 4.5-5 stars.