Check out my YouTube channel where I show my instant reactions upon finishing reading fantasy books.An incredible middle book, in what may be turning out to be Robin Hobb's best series yetThis is a truly wonderful book that is somehow even better than I was expecting, which says a lot because I was expecting to be blown away. Unlike the previous two "Farseer" trilogies, this middle book is even better than the first book, largely due a wider range of emotional development with the main characters and a more expansive setting.If the final book sticks the landing, which I fully expect it will, this series will likely go down as the best series within this world.Story: 4/5This was an absolutely marvelous story, that kept things engaging even though the pacing is at times excruciatingly slow. Don't go into this book expecting rapid plot development, otherwise you are going to be sorely disappointed.It took quite a while for the plot to really develop, but when it did the setup felt extremely well done and it made the payoff of these pivotal moments even more important to the reader. And without spoiling anything, there were a couple moments in this book that I have been desperately hoping would happen for averylong time, that finally get delivered and I couldn't have been happier that they finally occurred.This book definitely does suffer a bit from the middle book syndrome, but knowing that Robin Hobb literally always delivers on her final book it made it much more bearable than with other authors that have either failed to deliver in the past, or haven't proven themselves yet.World Building: 5/5This book has hands down the best worldbuilding out of any of the 8 Farseer books that have been written thus far, in large part due to the much more expansive locations that are explored here, as well as the previous books finally getting their much needed tie-ins.There have been 7 books written outside of the Farseer books (3 in Liveship Traders, and 4 in Rainwild Chronicles), and up until this book those books have felt like completely different stories than what is being told here. But we finally got the much needed connection between those stories, and this one, and it was a wonderful way to bring them all together. I previously would have recommended that people who weren't in love with the direction of the Rainwild Chronicles books could skip them and still enjoy this series, but I now revoke that opinion entirely. They are must reads to fully appreciate this world.Fantasy Elements: 4/5These books are not written due to their grand fantasy elements, like so many fantasy books are. They are written to tell an emotional character story first and foremost. But this book certainly had the best usage of traditional fantasy elements out of any of the Farseer books due to how important these aspects were for the story that was being told.I don't want to ruin a single thing about this book for those who are reading this without reading this book first, but what has previously been a disappointment for me in these books is definitely not the case here. The magic makes more sense than ever before, is used in a more important fashion, and is fun when it is utilized without feeling overpowered.Characters: 5/5The characters in this book, and this series as a whole, are without a doubt the greatest characters ever written in the history of fantasy. The journey that you get to take with Fitz, following him from a little boy into a grown man - and the cast of characters that surrounds him, is remarkably perfect. The range of emotions that these characters go through feels so incredibly real, and I struggle to imagine how anyone will ever top what Robin Hobb has achieved here. There isn't a single character in this entire 15 book series that has been a disappointment.Writing Style: 5/5Robin Hobb is a marvelous writer, and her ability to make you sympathize with literally every single character in this book makes this an instant masterpiece. Everything is written in such amazingly vivid detail, and even when things aren't tense (which most things aren't in this book) it is gripping and extremely difficult to put down.Enjoyment: 5/5Even though I didn't give this book perfect 5/5 star ratings in each of my arbitrary categories, I struggle to see how I could have enjoyed my time reading this book more than I did. From the first page to the last, I was absolutely enveloped in this world, and the only reason I am not bitterly disappointed that this book is over is because I still have another one yet to read.