Fitz would say, “I’m sorry, I’m so sorry.” Hobb would say that 2 stars aren’t bad. Still, it is with reluctance and some trepidation that I slap 2 stars onto this book. These days, I don’t write many elaborate reviews anymore, but I feel that I owe an explanation here.Before things gets heated, I will proclaim my undying love for most of Hobb’s works in the paragraph below, because that appears the custom among underwhelmed, and therefore apologetic fans. Feel free to skip the next paragraph instead!Right. When I heard about this series I was overjoyed. Two decades after I’d discoveredAssassin’s Apprenticein a second-hand bookstore and had fallen in love with Fitz and the Fool, I had not expected to meet them again. And so it was with a mixture of anticipation and sweet nostalgia that I waited forFool’s Assassin. I first met Fitz during my turbulent early teens, and as he took me with him through his life, book after book, trilogy after trilogy, I felt like I grew up with him. I remember missing my train stop because I was too engrossed in his story. Like yesterday, I remember how I - sadly also in a train full of commuters - broke down in tears whenNighteyes diedSomeone asked me if I was "all right?" Of course I wasn’t all right! And I refuse to write this down to my being an emo teen: like with Fitz, a part of me died too that day. But I read on. I marveled at John Howe’s cover art: his perfect portrayal of Fitz, and that cover of Fool’s Errand, that I could stare at like my girlfriends did at Peter Andre’s abs in hisMysterious Girldays. Soon after, I had the opportunity to meet Hobb in a Dutch bookstore and, fortunately for her, I was insecure enough about my English that I did not bring her an ode. I let her quietly sign my copy instead. Then theLiveship Traderstrilogy came along, and I reread it 3 times, or maybe 4?This book I will not reread.After the initial excitement of being back in the Six Duchies ebbed away, I began noticing peculiarities. Niggles, that at first I could easily shrug off. Like how unlikely it was for Fitz to let amessenger with an urgent, personal messagewait by forgetting all about her, then simply ignoring her presence. And how odd that a man who was literally immersed in assassin’s practices and mortal danger since his early childhood, passively wondered about the sudden arrival ofstrangers at a party in his house, and allowed them to murder said messenger and leave blood trailsbehind in his private rooms. Not to mention his lethargic approach when anew (brutally hunted!) messenger made clear what was at stake.That, I could write off to Fitz possibly having lost his “edge”, a fear that he and others expressed throughout the book. Stranger is that he only briefly considered the “suspicious” events, before re-immersing himself in his domestic, talcum-powdered dream with a slightly mellowed, yet still occasionally scathing Molly.What followed was a day-by-day account of humdrum, interspersed with Fitz’ life-weariness, angst for Molly’s ageing body and mind, and a longing foranother child of their own. In self-indulgent pacing, Hobb explored these topics over the course of the next 500 pages, in-between padding involving clothes, parenting issues, and repetitive narrative questions that were echoed back and forth between the two narrators, all the while barely touching upon traces of a plot other than a sense of foreboding and...Repetitive clues. Look, I’m someone who usually blazes through books, devouring them as fast as I can. I’m therefore probably the last person to point out the culprit in a murder mystery. Then how is it possible, I ask, that a writer that I hold in such high regard due to her proven brilliance in weaving subtle hints and clues into a story, managed to insult my intelligence so this time? I was so disappointed in Hobb’s Fitz in this book. I found it unacceptable that in spite of an avalanche of clues - almost patronizing in their blatancy - Fitz was this blind to the gigantic elephant in the room: the fact thathis daughter was aMary Sue“white prophet”.Man! I was so incredibly frustrated with Hobb’s choice to turn Fitz - if nothing else an admirable observer - into such a dense, oblivious character for the sake of her foreseeable, stretched-thin plot. I figured it out the moment the BLOODYCHILD WAS BORN, COME ON NOW!Ahem, excuse me.So to make matters worse, Fitz’ narrative voice felt distant throughout. I understood him being subdued and weary after his traumatic past. I did. What I didn’t understand was why he not only had to be morphed into a shadow of his former self, but also into a stranger. I mentioned how his training and skills - his “edge” - appeared to have vanished. Small examples that stood out: despite having experienced a similar childhood, he repeatedly told hisbullied daughter “Oh, they don’t hate you!”, like your average clueless parentin a silly children’s book. And he showed his belly like a submissive wolf whenever one of the women in his life scolded or threatened him - and Molly, Nettle, Shun, even Bee had in common that to varying degrees they ALL treated Fitz with disdain, contempt, and sarcasm. I couldn’t handle letting my ereader do a search for the number of times he grovelled, muttering how “sorry” he was, but it was a lot.Where’s Kyle Haven when you need him to smack some respect into that lot?:pAh, those gorgeousLiveship Tradersbooks! Were the many narrators in that series all beautifully fleshed-out characters with unique voices, inFool’s Assassinthe two new characters were cookie-cutter idiots (My guess? It's a transparent strategy to make their coming-of-age in the following books more striking). And Fitz and hisdaughter (in many chapters a toddler still!)sounded so alike that at the beginning of a new chapter it wasn’t always clear whose head I was in. Bee’s narrative voice was perfectly uninteresting and added zero oomph to the story, since she mostly described exactly the same daily grind as Fitz. A missed opportunity that’s so unlike Hobb... I despair.Anyway, only in the last 80 pages of this book did the pacing suddenly pick up, and did Fitz display some character when confronted withanimal cruelty. However, soon it became clear that this scene and the following “fuss” at the inn all served as a set-up to make hisstabbing of the “beggar”a more believable action. Yeah well, that didn’t work, did it? Not only was his behavior bizarrely at odds with Fitz’ lethargic character up until that point, I found it a forced, inelegant twist unworthy of Hobb.I should stop, shouldn’t I? And I I will. But let me point out a few final, minor annoyances first: 1) what on earth was up with thatWolf Father?!Either you kill off a character or you don’t. You’re not supposed to bring some warped version ofNighteyes back to chat with Bee in times of need.That’s only okay in pulpy PNR. Here, it was just lame and icky. And 2) due to the overall lack of plot I was extra annoyed with the little teasing story-lines that turned out loose ends:Bee supposedly learning to fight with a knife, Bee chatting with that (finally, an intriguing new character!) cat, Lant supposedly being taught by Fitz and possibly becoming an apprentice, Fitz possibly bonding with that fierce horse...Everything crashed and burned in favor of the dull daily grind.BUT... I’m determined to end on an optimistic note! Friends mentioned thatFool’s Questis everythingFool’s Assassinwas not. I’m a quarter in and I agree. So far, I’m engrossed in what feels like an old-fashioned, classic Hobb again. I’m so relieved, I could cry.