➽And the moral of this rereread is:over-caffeinated street vendors disguised askeys(and vice versa) +explodingflying ninjas +mystical shit galore+ people who go “pop” in the mosthorrifyingdelightful way + wonderfully scrumptiousbatshit crazy bitches+ severed limbs FTW! +insane mystical conundrums aplenty=👋To be continued and stuff.[March 2020]➽And the moral of this reread is:Robert Jackson Bennett,thank thee kindly ever so much. Because of you I am now in hopeless, desperate 💕lurve💕 with a key.A bloody shrimping KEY.[May 2018]🥇🦐Shrimpiest Book of the Year Award Nominee! 🦐🥇Actual rating: 6.848697 stars.And a half.Okay. So this book is sobloody fishing scrumptiousI don't know where to start. By foaming at the mouth maybe? Not a bad idea, actually, that usually workspretty wellfor me.Oh yes, I feel much more inspired now. Not to mention super sexy and irresistible and stuff.Okay. I can do this. Let's see. Where to start? Oh yes,The Divine Cities. You know, theslightly wondrous trilogythat brings instant doom and self-combustion to those Puny Barnacles who haven't yet heard about it/read it/rated it 10+ stars? Yes,thattrilogy. Well it turns out the books in said trilogy aresome of the very bestestI have ever read in the entirety of my entire nefarious life. And it just so happens that this little book right here was written by The Divine Cities'Divine Daddy(DD™), Robert Jackson Bennett. Imagine that!What a coincidence and stuff!Anyway, I was offered an ARC for Foundryside, and I must admit I almost didn't accept it. I mean, there are so manyglorious Historical Romanceswaiting for me on my to-be-read shelf! How could I carelessly dismiss them in favor of asilly Fantasy bookwritten by somemoderately talented guyI've repeatedly asked to marry meI kinda sorta not completely dislike and stuff? Quite the predicament this was, I must admit. But, being the civilized, friendly, eager-to-please overlord that I am, I ended up accepting the ARC. Because it wasthe polite thing to do, obviously. And not because I wasslightly excitedat the prospect of reading this book. And certainly not because the mere thought of holding itin my undeserving little pincersmade me feel a little like this:Nope nope nope. Absolutely not and stuff.Soooooo, it's time for the crap to be cut! You want to read this bookbecause:①I will unleashmy murderous crustaceans on you if you don't. QED and stuff.②One of the mostest originalest world-buildingsin the history of mostest originalest world-buildings this isOne of the othermostest originalest world-buildingsin the history of mostest originalest world-buildings being that of Divine Cities. Just so you know. You're welcome. Believe me, my Flimsy Decapods, you'venever read anything like this. Imagine a city reminiscent ofMedieval Venice, ruled bypower-hungrylovely merchant families bent onschemingacting benevolently 24/7.What? You think this ain't no original stuff? Ha. You clueless Arthropods you! Now imagine a city reminiscent ofMedieval Venice, in a world wherelexical magicis used toalter the realityperceived by objects so as to modify their behavior and confuse the fish out of, um, you know, reality and stuff. Sorry, what?You no compute? Don't you worry your little selves about it. Just read the book andthank me profusely later.Anyhoo, all you really need to know about Foundryside is:magic and science and technology, oh my! Welcome to Robert Jackson Bennett'sLusciously Delicious Industrialized Magic World(LDIMW™)! It's so beautifullycomplex and rich and well-thought-out and amazingly detailedthat this book should have been more boring than watching elderly barnacles copulate! Or than reading coma-inducingLocke LamoraandThe Blade Itselfback to back! But it wasn't! It was reasonablyexciting and gripping and titillating and stimulating and intriguing! And a littlethrilling, too! Because spoiler spoiler spoiler! And becauseSimonIndy says don't play withobscure artifacts! And becauseHistory and ancient, magic secretswill always bite you in the exoskeleton! You'd know this if you'd readDivine Citiesand stuff! You know, it's that relatively enjoyable series Imay have mentionedbefore! I think! Not sure though! Uh-oh! Looks like I'm suffering from a very sudden, very acute case ofSevere Exclamationitis! This is most troubling indeed!Please someone fetch Dr Prawn at once!Yep, pretty much.③High Security Harem-worthy characters galore! I'madoptingkidnapping them all! Bloody fishing shrimp, it's getting crowded in the RBJ wing of my harem. If the man keeps thisRidiculously Amazing Characterization Business(RACB™) going much longer, I'll have to build an extension and stuff. And I fully expect him to foot the bill and stuff. I mean, is it my fault if he writes characters I just cannot resistlocking upprotecting? Obviously not. The man dangles some of themost mouthwatering female characters in Fantasy todayand I am supposed to stoically remain stoical? Right. Glad you agree with me on that one.Long story short: I am quite innocent, andPoof Gone Kidnappedand stuff.Oh wait, I haven't told you who it is I was kidnapping! Well, apart fromthe whole cast, I mean. Sooooo, we haveSancia the super yummy, kick-ass,refreshingly uncontainedthiefwho hears all the objects and things and stuff she touches (don't ask) because spoiler spoiler spoiler (I told you not to ask, didn't I?) Then we haveClef the spoiler spoiler spoilerwho might be the mostestunexpectedest, awesomest, funniest sidekickin the history of mostest unexpectedest, awesomest, funniest sidekicks. Then we haveGregor the delectably reluctant herowho spoiler spoiler spoiler with his spoiler spoiler spoiler. Then we haveSpoiler Spoiler Spoiler(not the character's real name, in case you were wondering) who would makeboth Q and Inspector Gadget proud. Then we haveexquisitely grumpy Spoiler Spoiler Spoiler(not the character's real name, either) who may or may not spoiler spoiler spoiler the spoiler spoiler spoiler and vice versa.Then we have…Sorry what? You've got boring things to do and uninteresting places to visit, and want me toget a move onand stuff? Oh, fine. Such a bunch of subaquatic party poopers you Brooding Arthropods are sometimes. There's justone last thingI want to add before you resume your fascinating activities: there aredeliciously evil, wonderfully treacherous bastards and bitchesin this book. Yes there are. Which is definitely worth acelebratory dance, if you ask me.I recently attended Fleet Admiral DaShrimp's Smooth Moves for Undercover Crustaceans webinar. It shows, huh?④ The story isexciting and gripping and titillating and stimulating and intriguing and a little thrilling. I've already told you as much? Are you quite sure? I don't think I did. Maybe you should stay away from drugs and alcohol for a while, my Little Barnacles. They seem to be affecting yourever-flailingmental abilities. But anyway. So the story iskinda sorta bloody shrimping fantastic. It's anaction-packed adventurefull of, um, you know, action and stuff. And full of suspense, too. Andmystery. And twists. And surprises. Andrevelations. And emotional stuff that does weird, unmentionable things to my black, withered heart. And a whole lot ofhahahahahaha dialogues. And fantabuliciousheists. And cool (if manically happy) contraptions. Andsevered limbs(which are always a plus, if you ask me). And flying assholes. Andkeys that orgasmwhen they open doors (I kid you not). Andpretty excited dead guys.Andneurotic scrivings. And people exploding. Andaggravating shackles. And the apocalypse.Or thereabout.I'm very not sorry but the following cannot be helped. Don’t blame me, blame RBJ.⑤ Thefinalewill leave you feeling bothlike this:Andlike this:Robert Jackson Bennett, have you ever thought of changing your last name toDun Dun Dun? Because you totally should, methinks.➽ And the moral of thisI Liked this Book a Little But It's Not Like It's One of My Favorite Ones Ever of Course Not Don't Be Ridiculous Now Crappy Non Review(ILtBaLBINLIOoMFOEoCNDBRNCNR™) is: RBJ, it's a good thing you've already started writing book 2 in this series.Not that I want to read it or anything, but other people might. Now if I was, say,somewhat interestedin continuing with what promises to be arelatively magnificentseries, I would maybe send a few platoons ofmurderous crustaceansto, um, you know,threatenwatch over you, thus ensuring you, um, you know, wrote the sequel to this bookpost-bloody-shrimping-hastein themost positive, pleasant atmosphere. See? Kindness is me. Also,no pressure and stuff.Thanks so much to Kathleen Quinlan and Crown Publishing for sending me an ARC of this book! I shall forever be full of grate and stuff!·Book 2:Shorefall★★★★★·Book 3:Locklands· DNF at 51% 😱😱😱😭😭😭[Pre-review nonsense]There is a slight chancethat I might have enjoyed reading this book a teensy little bit. Maybe. Possibly.Perhaps. There is also a slight chance that this book might be one of myfavorite ones ever. Maybe. Possibly.Perhaps. Not sure though. I'll have to get back to you on that one and stuff. As soon as I finish jumping up anddownup like a13-year-old fangirl on acid.What? You don't think that girl is 13? Of course she is. She looks much wiser than her years, that is all.Thisoriginally original fantastically fantasticworld.Thisyummily yummilicious cast ofHigh Security Harem-Worthy Characters(HSHWC™).Thisgrippingly gripping, twistily twistyplot.Thisspoilerishly spoilerishspoiler spoiler spoiler.Thisstupendously stupendousevery-bloody-shrimping-thing.➽ FullMr RJB You Already Rejected My Marriage Proposal Once You Do Not Want to Turn Me Down Again and Have Me BecomeMore ofa Homicidal ManiacThan I Already AmDo You Now But Hey No Pressure and Stuff Crappy Non Review(MRJBYARMMPOYDNWtTMDAaHMBMoaHMTIAADYNBHNPaSCNR™) to come.[April 24, 2018]Bloody shrimping hell of the slaughterish decapod!!!!!I'm getting aRobert Jackson Bennett of the Amazingly ScrumpaliciousDivine Cities(RJBotASDV™) ARC!!!!!Ahhhhhhhhhhhand stuff!!!!!Let's daaaaaaaanceand stuff!!!!!Also,