This book is about a young boy who takes a nap under a tree in the forest. While he sleeps he dreams of the many dragons that live within the forest. He feels that his mission is to tame the dragons and comfort them. His plan is to gather all the tools he will need and set off to find the dragons with his horse, who is actually his cute little pup. He knows they will be grumpy and therefore need love. Once he is able to find the dragons, he takes them under his wing. He gives them just what they need to be tamed… a warm blanket and a cup of hot chocolate! The dragons are then calmed and ready for a good night's sleep, good night, dragons! One of the major themes in this book is caring for those who might need extra care. They might have an attitude or seem to not want to be bothered, but if you keep trying you will realize that all they needed was a nice gesture. The genre of this book is fantasy. If I were to read this book to children, I would teach them how important it is to be a nice person. Everyone needs a friend, and everyone needs a hug from time to time. If we were to all be that person then the world might be a better place. I would also teach them about courage, although you know some things might be hard, it is still good to face them. And when you do face them, you will see how strong you are and what difference you can make. Just like when the little boy was able to tame the fierce dragons! This book is a WOW book for me because of the story that is behind the words. I myself need courage sometimes, and when I do finish what I thought I could not, it makes me realize how strong I can be. It also reminds me of dreaming, our dreams can sometimes face things we cannot, and it is often a great place to be!Some of the literary devices the author uses are similes. Her similes compare things that we often know. Therefore, we can understand what the character was experiencing as well. As I am sure we all know the horrible smell of burnt toast or the comforting feeling of wrapping up in our favorite blanket. I would consider this book to be anti-bias because we are reading a book that is about setting aside differences and not projecting common beliefs. Even though we see dragons as big, scary, intimidating monsters… they are just like us, sometimes all they need is their favorite blanket, hugs, and a cup of hot chocolate!