What I think about when I hear the name...Po:-Po the Panda-Po from Telletubbies- A crazy guy (like Edgar Allen Poe)- PooKatsa:- Ketchup- Mutant KatnissRor:-Roar! I'm a T-Rex!Tealiff:- Tea LeafSkye:- Skype- A modern name, which you will NOT find in a medieval place.King Randa:- Ranting + Panda. King Ranting Panda!Drowden:- Drowsy- DrowningThigpen- Pig pen- Thinking penLeck- Lick- Peck- Neck- Smack- Some other variationLienid:- An insult. ("Hey, youLienid!")By the way, Po's real name is Greening Grandemalion. Great, at least its notYellowingGrandemalion orPurplingGrandemalion or something stupid like that. That would sound really weird, unlike Greening Grandemalion, which is a name someone would normally give to their child. Yeah...If you have any more suggestions about what the names fromGracelingsound like, feel free to put it in the comments!Note:Next up is the review, which is very thorough about the issues ofGraceling'sworldbuilding. This is going to take a while, but stay with me. Thanks.Actual Rating:2.5 starsWhen reviewers criticizeGraceling, they often complain about the view on feminism. I think enough has been said about that, so for detailed reviews about that issue, I recommend Amanda's review and Tatiana's review.However, this isn'tGraceling'sonly flaw. The other big problem is the black-and-white world-building.World ofGracelingGracelingis set in a european-ish medieval land with horses, taverns, kings, castles, and anything else you would except to find in such a place. The land is divided into seven kingdoms: Lienid (the island kingdom), Monsea (a kingdom closed off by the mountains), Middluns (the middle kingdom), and Nander, Estill, Sunder, Wester, which surround Middluns on the North, East, South, and West side, respectively. (See what Cashore did there?) Another aspect is the Graced; some people are born with special abilities called "Graces" such as mind-reading, excellent swimming skills, killing, etc. There is great prejudice against the Graced (except in Lienid) and one can tell if another person is Graced if the person's eyes are mismatched colors. (Random comment: One of my friends has eyes like this. It's a condition called heterochromia iridum. But sadly, my friend has no superpowers. :( ) Anyways...I think we can all agree that European medieval worlds are definitely overdone;nearly every epic fantasy or high fantasy is set in one! However, authors can still make them fresh if they add complexity to them with new aspects or intriguing history.Examples of Fresh, Intriguing WorldsFor example, in Cinda Williams Chima'sSeven Realms, the generic fantasy world is made fresh by complex struggles between Gray Wolf Queens, Clan, and Wizards. There is a well-developed and unique culture in the world, stemming from the struggles between Clan and Wizards, and the history is complex and believable.Another example isThe Well Between the Worlds. It is a retelling of the King Arthur tale, set in a medieval world, but adds the elements of the Wells, the sinking of Lyonnesse, and industrialization to make a breathtakingly fresh and original world.So, what's the matter withGraceling'sworld?WhyGraceling'sWorld-building Simply Isn't Good EnoughFirst off, there are only a few fresh aspects of this world:1.) The idea of the Graced2.) Some cultural aspects of the Lienid (like the gold jewelry, Po's tattoos, and the ring/inheritance thing....and that's pretty much it.But there's got to be more! Anything! Tell me,is there...A religion?No.History?(Like references to why the kingdoms are how they are, etc?) Nope.Mythology/legends/storiesabout old heroes, Graced, etc.? No.Unique cultural aspects?None.Anything that separates the world of Graceling from other fantasies?I'm sorry, but there is, other than the Graced, nothing original here.Okay, okay, we get it! Nothing new here! But sometimes, generic fantasy worlds are complex. There are complex issues, complex characters, and complex motivations which make up for the lack of originality. In fact, a world lacking new ideas sometimes portrays old ideas in a new light! What about Graceling? Is there any complexity?Lack of complexity in GracelingPart One: The Inhabitants of the worldEEEEEEVIL PEOPLE:- The villain,King Leck.Why is he evil? Because he is! What does he do? Torture animals! He evenkilled his own wife!He is so EEEEEVIL!- King Randa. Poor Katsa! Her EEEEEEVIL uncle is making her kill people! Does he feel the slightest guilt or remorse? No! Does he have a good reason for this? Yes, so he can be evenmorepowerful! MWAHAHAHAHA!- Those other kings! (Except for King Ror, who is good.) They are always squabbling over borders and killing poor peasants and stuff. How horrible of them! They are so EEEEEVIL! And one of them evenheld a poor old guy prisoner, just so he could be rich!MEAN people- Basically, everyone non-Graced. They just don't understand what it's like! Now that I think about it, all of Katsa's friends are either Graced or have a family member who is Graced (or are Lienid). The only exception is Oll.- Giddon. He is so condescending! And he doesn't understand Katsa! And he's so stupid, he thinks he can protect her! Even when she can kick his ass! This portrayal bugs me, because it feels like a gimmick to show how good Katsa is, and how she deserves a good man in her life, and blah blah blah.GOOD PEOPLE- Katsa is forced to kill people by her uncle. But wait, she is really good! Don't believe me? She created an organization called The Council, which does nice stuff! She is so angelic! Admittedly, Cashore did give her a few personality flaws, but not enough. I mean, when you can kill and entire army without even a sword, wouldn't you be extremely selfish and extremely spoiled? I admit, I would be.- Po. He is SOOOO noble! He still loves Katsa even ifshe won't marry him.And his secret is OK. Yes, Katsa is mad, but he is SOOOOOOO nice she doesn't care.- Lienid people! They are so nice to the Graced! They respect them 'n stuff.- Everyone not in the MEAN or EEEEEVL section. They are brave, noble, etc. No one is ever a mixture of good and evil.Part Two: The World ItselfThe world ofGracelinglacks nuance. When you look at the history of Europe, there are ancient alliances, complex relations, etc. between the countries. Not to mention, the citizens of each country see themselves in one way and see people from other countries in other way. There are stereotypes, symbols, legends, and histories that may or may not be real. (And not just in Europe, everywhere.)I was expecting well-developed relations between the kingdoms and between normal people and Graced people. I mean, Katsa and Po have to travel across many countries and I wanted to see them struggle against prejudices and stereotypes.However, they had had it extremely easy. Here is the extent to which all the relationships were developed:- Normal people hate the Graced! (For no apparent reason) All you see is a strong dislike, no complex feelings. (For example, being in awe of their powers, yet feeling jealous)- Kingdoms fight over borders. That is pretty much it. Their only dislike comes from border squabbles.And... that's about it.Anyways, readingGracelingwas an underwhelming experience. I mean, the first time I read it, I was in middle school, and even then I was disappointed!Recommendations:Many people loved this book. You might too, if you:1.) Love a good kick-ass heroine2.) Are looking for a fun adventure3.) Want lots of action in your fantasy4.) Love reading about kind, noble men in love with misfit girlsBut you might not if you:1.) Are looking for a deep exploration of feminist ideas2.) Require complex, original world-building3.) Need complex characters4.) Want a complex plotFinal Comment:Gracelingisn't a bad book. For me it was 2.5 stars (2.5 = a little more enjoyable than "meh") There is some decent character development, some exciting action, and a somewhat original plot. Also, other than the overwrought feminism,Gracelingdoesn't have any big flaws that might insult the reader and completely ruin the reading experience. There was also some humor and some quotable moments, my favorite being,“When a monster stopped behaving like a monster, did it stop being a monster? Did it become something else?”during a moment of poignant character introspection. (Speaking of that, there were some great ideas concerning what it means to be a monster.) All of this made Graceling an OK book. However,Gracelingfeels like an edited draft - there are good ideas, good editing, but nothing is really fleshed out. Let's hope in future books, Cashore spends more time on her story.Alternatives:- For a complex fantasy,Seven Realmsis an terrific four-book series. Book 1 (The Demon King) is mostly a set-up book, with fantastic world-building, but familiar (and somewhat cliche) characters. Book 2 (The Exiled Queen) is great; the characters deepen, and the plot thickens. Book 3 (The Gray Wolf Throne) is absolutely stunning; intricate plotlines come perfectly together, characterization is amazing, and the tension is almost unbearable. And Book 4 (The Crimson Crown) is the kind of book so jaw-droppingly amazing, you feel like crying just because the book ENDED.- For a (urban-ish) fantasy/Para-Normal Romance, (don't worry, there romance isn't annoying]) with a totally kick-ass heroine, original world-building, and gorgeous prose, check outDaughter of Smoke and Boneby Laini Taylor.- For a short, rich fantasy (that won the Mythopoeic Fantasy Award) with a strong heroine who is selfish (but gets better) and has a coming-of-age story, I recommend Franny Billingsley'sThe Folk Keeper. There is also an exciting mystery (with more than one twist), and just the tiniest dash of romance. Plus, as a bonus, the prose is lovely.- I've heard that theThe Queen's Thiefseries by Megan Whalen Turner are fantastic, especially those after book 1 (The Thief.) I admit, I have not read them yet, but book 1 won the Newberry Honor medal, and many "picky" reviewers say they are fantastic.-The Well Between the Worldsby Sam Llewelyn is also a terrific, original novel. Yes, it is a children's book (ages 10+) but so wasHis Dark Materials. And just likeHis Dark Materials, TWBTW is sophisticated, well-written, and a lot of fun. And isn't it said that a good children's book can be enjoyed by adults as well?Anyways, I hope this review helps anyone thinking about whether or not they should readGraceling.Random:Those of you not familiar with the Teletubbies theme song, this might seem weird. But I hope you can sympathize with my frustration with theGracelingnames.So, here is a parody:TheGraceling/TeletubbiesParody*To the tune of theTeletubbytheme song*Tinkywinky...Dipsey...Katsa...Po...Teletubbies... Graceling people... say... he... llo!