She mutters something as she drops to her back and puts her hand over her forehead."What are you doing?" I ask in confusion.She cracks one eye open and glares at me with it before grinding out, "I'mfainting."Her eye snaps shut again, and by some miracle, I manage to keep a straight face, since this is a really serious moment.The two long banners at the other end snap, likely because of Shera doing her part to help me be the fool who throws herself at the monster's feet. All eyes jerk in that direction, as I stand and fling myself over the balcony.The strings come to life, flying out of my bra and swinging me through the crowd like a wanna-be, poor man's spider-girl in Ghostbuster underwear.Wrecking Ballpops into my head, and I can almost imagine Anna singing it to me in this moment.I thought the juvenile, unsexy undies would help keep things from escalating on the date I didn't want to to take with the guy I can't refuse, whose monster I'm about to feed. Now, however, I'm totally regretting the underwear choice.~"You're treating me like I'm Idun, Arion. You started this entire thing by manipulating me and working around me, telling me the truth after the fact," I say, whispering again."I already bloody admitted you started as a replacement. Give me time to adjust. I fall the hardest. Already told you this too, love. It's too late for you, I'm afraid." He leans forward abruptly, gently nipping my earlobe. "And I haven't wanted anything as much as I want you in far too fucking long. I'll have you, Violet. At some point, you're the kind of sweet girl who will see it cruel to continue to make me chase."A shaky breath snakes out of me when he places a single, soft kiss on the spot of my throat he's been fascinated with - the spot where he bit me and didn't leave a lasting mark."The next time will be much better when that time comes. My patience only struggles because of how sweet it was to taste a Portocale that doesn't burn the tongue. But it's not the Portocale in you that lingers in a man, driving the most patient of the four to the brink so easily," he says in that soft, hypnotic tone once more."No," he goes on, kissing my neck again. "It's a taste like no other - one powerful taste at first, but a simmering second one, so subtle and unique. It grows increasingly more addictive each day that passes without it, the craving almost unbearable. If another vampire ever tastes your blood, I'll have to kill them to keep them away."My heart sinks a little. "So now the reason you want me is because of my blood?" I ask in an even tone, staring at what bit of his cheek that I can see.I feel his grin against my throat. "A very welcome fringe benefit, Violet. An effective side effect, but not the catalyst." He twirls a strand of my hair around his finger, solid black eyes meeting mine.A chill immediately slithers up my spine, and it's not me who is knocking down the temperature this time. I don't notice it as much when I apparently do it.I notice it very much right now.As goosebumps pebble on my skin, my eyes flick to the barely-there points of his fangs that are teasing me with a glimpse."I'm saying you tempt the monster on the surface, and the one underneath," he goes on.I don't know what to do or say. Every reaction I have leads to him reading way too much into it, and I don't usually have to overthink my reactions, damn it.He's like a loaded shotgun with a sensitive trigger. I'm not good with those. At all. They always leave a mess for me to clean up."Just tell me how to change it, Violet. Tell me what I can do. Don't continue to write me off so easily, when we both know you want me as much as I want you," he goes on, gently dragging his lips up my neck. "Give me a direction.I really love this series, but I didn't love this book nearly as much as the first three. I rounded up with my rating, I mean it's good don't get me wrong, but it's just not…asgood. There's plenty of scenes and lines that made me laugh, Violet's relationships with her monsters are progressing, and quite a few questions that have been lingering from the beginning are answered. Still, I'm not sure why, but I just didn't love it. I honestly just can't pin downwhy. Either way, I love the series and I just downloaded book five so I'll be moving on to it fairly soon. Anyway here are some of my favorite scenes, but fair warning…there's definitely spoilers, just no way around it.He pauses at the counter, releasing my hand as he goes to a wall and pushes on it to reveal a secret opening.It's dark, but a glow of the light travels up the stone steps just enough to make it…super creepy.I give Vance an incredulous look when he gestures for me to follow."Idun pitted us against each other. She liked us fighting, and she loved chasing us when we tried to break away. It isn't until we stayed done that she started getting desperate. You'd just walk away, Violet. Your nature is to cut and run. You'd never be desperate to pull us back in. You're not a replacement," he says very firmly, giving the illusion of a patient man. "Come on there's something I want to show you.""Says the Van Helsing to the stupid Frankenstein's monster, as she stares down the creepy stairs to the basement that looks to dead-end at a stone wall with fucking chains on it," I deadpan. "I'll pass."His lips do that humored twitching thing again."Violet, please tell me that's just a really terrible joke," he says in that charming, playful way of his that he so rarely uses."I know you well enough for sex. I don't know you well enough to follow you into a basket-lowering well where you feed me lotion a few times a day,"I state warily, trying to get a better look at what's beyond that blocking stone wall at the end."Those sorts of areas don't have electricity wired to them," he assures me."The sort of areas where you take monsters to chain them to walls? Because I remember chains in the bedroom that Damien broke…"His look grows impatient at last, and before I can argue any farther, he moves too fast for me to stop him. I'm unceremoniously thrown over his shoulder, and his grabby hand slides up the shirt I'm wearing, landing firmly on my bare ass cheek there.I sigh and ride his shoulder down the stairs, since I can't get free without being a monster, and that would be dramatic overkill.At least until I find out what's in the-Vance quickly puts me down on my feet, and he moves behind me, as I turn to take in the large, vast, very empty basement that looks more like a deserted warehouse in sheer size."Why are you showing me an empty basement?" I decide to ask as his arms come around my waist from behind, and he nudges my head to the side to start kissing his way down my neck."Subtlety seems to get lost amongst the more overpowering personalities I'm surrounded with, but when I try too hard, I simply look pathetic and desperate," he tells me.Great. He's seriously going to try to lock me down here and keep me."However, if you have this spot to pot all the apple trees you want, then I won't have to try too hard to get you here," he goes on, confusing me for just a second as my shirt starts to get pushed up on my hips.It's then I realize what he said this morning about finally putting all the furniture where it goes to get it out of this basement. Because apparently he's giving it to me to grow my apple trees.No one ever wants me to grow the apples. Everyone likes the oranges.~"They want her to hurry up and fuck Arion so it'll break the bond between him and Idun."I'm the one to groan, and Violet nods like she agrees with my sentiment."How did you know?" Violet asks as she looks up."I got bored and watched Arion's surveillance of Vance's house when we couldn't reach Emit right away," Damien says like it's no big deal he continues to be a creep. "There really is an app for everything these days.""This is your future captain speaking," Arion says over the speaker once more. "I think the ghosts might be worth listening to after all. Let's discuss that some more."Violet's eyes widen marginally."He can hear us?" she hisses."Of course I can, love," the speaker says again."Unbelievable," Violet mutters, pinching the bridge of her nose, as a peculiar blush rises up her neck and spreads to her cheek. "How much farther?""We're not too far out," Vance answers, a smile in his voice. "Want to visit your captain before descent?"I hate Vance as well when Violet grins and undoes her seatbelt for the first time, trusting him far more than she does any of us.Even Damien narrows his eyes as she makes her way toward the front, sliding her hand across any surface close enough, just in case she needs to catch her balance.I lean out to the side, watching as she opens the door, and Vance reaches back a hand for her."I really should have stayed more current. I could have been a pilot," Damien grumbles.I glimpse Violet sliding down to Vance's lap, stars in her bloody eyes, as she loops her arms behind his neck."He's not even flying right now. It's on autopilot or some shit," I point out.Vance 'scratches' the back of his head with his bird finger, and that's the last I see before the cockpit door slips shut."When you walk into a room where I'm sitting, I'd like to be straddled like that," I can hear Arion saying. "How do I get fromheretothere?""Why are you posing shirtless and chopping wood?" Damien asks me, as I crack my knuckles.Fortunately, his register is below that of a whisper."Because this girl makes us all act like fucking idiots on break from the clown rings," I state absently, hearing a small, subtle giggle over the rumble of distant thunder. "The man presses his trousers to be pristine, before hanging them up in a color coordinated pattern. How ishemore masculine than I am?" I ask, trying my damnedest to ignore the sounds up front, as I tune out the small bit of praise Violet is singing for our fearless, stupid pilot.Damien snorts, as a closer rumble of thunder hits."Your masculinity has been called into question? That's the newest blockade?" he asks like he'shopinghe's figured this out and found this hellish answer.Mercifully, he keeps his tone as low as mine so the other two assholes don't overhear this conversation."I've been handling her too gently, apparently, and there's been some miscommunication of intentions, it seems," I correct, glaring at him.He chokes back a laugh…barely.~"Violet's not getting out of our sight," Arion adds.There's a moment of just staring…like everyone is trying to silently argue."No one naked in my car," Mom states when I just stand in my spot, waiting on them to hurry through the push and pull.You really can tell how thick the air is when too many alphas are in the room at one time, but weirdly it never feels this way when it's just the four of them. Unless punches are thrown. Then it gets a little heavier than normal.Arion pulls on his clothes, and threads whir in the air as I quickly fashion Emit a lopsided toga that lands on his body. Everyone's gaze swings to him like it's weird for him and normal for me to be in a toga.Awesome.Damien muffles a sound, Emit arches an eyebrow at me, and Arion remains rigid, staying close to me but never touching me.All of us squeezing into a car together while most of them hate each other…should be fun.The storm finally stops before we board the elevator, and it's one of those super awkward elevator moments where no one is looking at anyone or saying anything, and everyone is trying to stayin-the-momentserious.We stop on the floor just under us, after the longest thirty-five seconds ever.The doors open, and two men glance around at Emit and I in our matching togas, even though his is the fitted sheet and riding up in some funny places.He looks like a caveman who accidentally bleached and shrank his wardrobe.I palm my face, embarrassed for him.The next couple of floors are super awkward with the addition of the two new, notably uncomfortable men.Worst seventy-nine seconds ever. Math doesn't add up? Yeah. I'm upset about those extra nine seconds as well.Poor Emit has to duck out of the unusually small elevator, and the bottom of his ass cheek plays peek-a-boo on one side.Damien finally snorts, and even Mom struggles to keep a straight face. Thatreallypisses her off."You're seeing him on an off day," I tell the two guys, who stare at my red boots for a second.~Now that things are super awkward, I walk to the car, and hop in the backseat."Front seat, Violet," Mom immediately fires back.But I point at the sunroof. "Emit's not going to fit any other way.""This is the absolute worst week of my entire bloody existence," Emit seems to say in a decisive tone, staring at the car like it's the most offensive thing ever.Mom even hesitates, and makes another frustrated sound as she presses a button on the fob to start the car.We all need sensitivity training, because we watch without an ounce of shame, as he truly struggles to put himself in what is possibly one of the smallest cars ever. The other three would struggle some too.When Emit's head pops through the open sunroof, Vance scrubs a hand over his face."This is why you have rebellions," Arion says with a restrained smile. "You can't be taken seriously."Emit cuts his eyes to Arion, buthow…can he be taken seriously right now?Vance just blinks a few times. "I'll meet you there," he decides, eyes flicking to mine briefly."I'll take the clown car with the wolf, the livid Portocale, and the reason we're all even here right now," Damien chirps, eyes on mine as his lips tug up in an amused grin.Mom swings an accusatory glance my way."Unbelievable," is all she mutters.