Hey, Al is A Caldecott Medal winning picture written by Arthur Yorinks. Al is a quiet Janitor who lives with his talking dog, Eddie in a messy one-bedroom apartment. One day, a large bird pitched an idea to Al and Eddie to leave their messy lifestyle and take an adventure to a beautiful land. However, this paradise does not turn out like it seemed it would and Al and Eddie are forced to escape. The book is wonderfully illustrated with earthy tones throughout the whole book. The illustrators use Realism throughout in each picture. In the beginning of the book, the pictures are limited to a small box that does not take up the whole page, and later on the whole page is used for the illustrations. This book is wonderfully written and definitely deserves the Caldecott Medal.•	The problem in the book is almost immediately made known. On page 2 the dog does like where they live, and he wants a nice background to run around in. ““the moon? The moon? Eddie Howled. “Pigeons live better than us!””•	The author uses italics to put emphasis on words; this draws the reader’s attention to the importance of that word in the sentence. For example, “Al, Al, Al! You need a change. Tomorrow, come and be my guest. Eddie, too. You’ll see, you’ll love.” (pg3)•	The theme in this book can easily be that the grass is not always greener on the other side. “But ripe fruit soon spoils” (page 9). The book almost reads off what the theme is to be.•	The mood in the book starts off very melancholy at first. The characters do not have much to be happy about, and they dream of a better life. However, at the end of the book they are very thankful for the things they have and would never wish for something different again.•	There was not an overwhelming amount of didacticism in this book, however, there was an underlying message to be noticed. The book was strangely put together, but the moral of the story wasn’t made overly cheesy.•	The author was setting the tone for a very thoughtful book. This book would be very silly if the author had not previously brought in the issue of the characters not having enough money.•	The author develops the characters throughout the book to become more thankful for each other and the simple life that they lead. The author does this through dialogue between the characters describing what they think about the experience. “Paradise lost is sometimes heaven found” (page 28). The author uses this to show the new meaning of what the characters have in their home.•	The text is very realistic and there are not many figurative language devices used throughout the book. This offers a more realistic and relational feel to the reader.•	When reading this to kids, they can relate by learning to be grateful for what they have.•	It is sort of ironic when on Al says “a guy could live like this forever”, because eventually Al and Eddie are trying their hardest to break out of the fake paradise.Arthur Yorinks was born in New York and grew to love art through watching his mother as he grew up. Yorinks writing style is very unique and realistic. He tends to bring in very normal issues through a very odd story. He mostly uses italics to emphasize words throughout book, but does not use any other figurative language or other type of writing style.When discussing the book as far as writing goes some editors say, “This story helps to teach children that the green is not always greener on the other side. This story has a strong plot that shows the difficult decision that Al needs to make whether he should stay on the island or if he wants to go back to his old life. The plot style that is used is person vs self. By using this plot style Yorinks is able to show how Al is able to make a decision and how it betters his life”. However, not everyone is fond of this book, and think that “Did not like this random, disconnected book that seemed like the authors chopped up their original story and gave us the bits and pieces”.The best parts about this book were the illustrations and realistic in which they were presented:•	The style throughout this book was definitely realism. There were no weirdly shaped animals, and the colors matched really well with what was being depicted.•	The author uses painting as its form of media throughout the whole book.•	The lines throughout the whole book are rather smooth and are not very sharp. There is very inviting to the readers eyes and gives the book a softer feel.•	On page 13, on the left hand side there is a bird with a human hand. This is ironic, because the characters will soon be changing into birds themselves.•	The flowers the birds are giving them are yellow (page 13) which is meant to be a sign of caution or happiness.•	The text is almost not needed for the illustrations to make a story. However, they both play work together very well. One does over power the other.•	It was interesting that each picture in the apartment was also drawn a little bit from the outside. This gave a 3D look to the illustrations•	When Al and Eddie were in “paradise” the lines appeared to be a little smoother than normal and when they were back in their apartment the lines had more edges and heaviness to them. This was meant to emphasize that paradise was more relaxing and safe.•	The overall mood of the illustrations was very welcoming and engaging. The illustrations scream to be looked over and studied for longer than a few seconds.•	The colors are lighter and more earth toned, this gives a lighthearted feel to throughout, and is more welcoming and appealing to the reader’s eyes.Richard Egielski was born in New York as well. He grew up always loving art, which led him to attend New York High School for Art and Design. For many years his artwork was considered strange and out of the ordinary until he met Arthur, who though his work was incredible. The two paired together to make the award book Hey, Al.Overall, the editors online loved the illustrations in this book. Some thought that, “the facial emotions that were illustrated on Al’s character because it was easy to tell how he was feeling despite the narrators commentary of the situation.” While other readers felt that “The illustrations of the birds are amazing! The use of two-page spreads for paradise and the confined look of Al's apartment work well. One of my favorite quirky picture books”. The illustrations really won over many of the readers.I was able to read this book with my 2-year-old nephew, and he was not able to sit through it. The book is more suitable for children older than 5 years. Although, my nephew really did enjoy pointing all the birds and asking them to say, “tweet tweet”. I really thought this book was different and had a lot of great things within. The illustrations were definitely my favorite part. I did think the story was a little quirky, but it was nice reading a different typed of children’s book.