I think the book couldnt decide what it wanted to be.It started of as lighthearted fun book where you dont question lack of depth of the story because you are reading for fun and romance. It was kind of twist on fated mates without the unbearable insta-atraction. There was relationship development, even if a bit too fast. But, for a pure romance with fantasy element, it could be forgiven. It was fun, the FMC aproached the situation as probably any rational person would. Writingstyle light. It was good. Possibly 4 stars.Then it seemed like the author wanted to get us some real action but with the lack of foundation, there was nothing to build on and it just fell flat. From 75% onward, it was a chore to continue reading. Not to mention how it didnt fit the rest of the book.There were few things that didnt make sense:1. Book description said “ I needed to keep him from going back to his sketchy ways” - we never saw this. It wasnt about her reforming him. he was a golden retriever from start to finish. That part of synopsis sounded like fun - to try and reform wicked demon. Right? But no. What it should have said was just the next part: “keep him out of prison”…2. His whole explanation why he went to prison felt made up (he was there basically by unfortunate turn of events and taking blame for someone else) - I half expected it to be a lie that would cause conflict later. It wasnt. So also having a guardian watching him made no sense.3. The big relationship drama was completely unreasonable. FMC was portrayed as person needing to rationalise and think everything through. But suddenly she was screaming “you lied to me”! Did he? No. He told her at the beginning he killed for government and she spent quite some time persuading herself that it doesnt make him a murderer. Now at 75% of the book she acuses him of lying because she didnt know killing is risky business. And she kept on whining about it like a little wuss. Annoying.4. Also FMC spent the entire book persuading us she didnt care for wealth only to go to every bank he has an account in and make him show her pictures of all of his houses as part of her forgiving process? “proving he doesnt hide anything”. Yeah. Sure. Not weird or anything... And after the hate her parents got from her for trying to climb social latter, she is just the same. Her words: “You’re making it really hard to stay mad at you. Apparently, I can be seduced with money and joggers.” - thats how she forgives him for lying. But ultimately, she summed up her character pretry well: “She sounds like a bitch,” she commented because she kicked him out of his own flat - not trying to get her own no. kicking him out of his. Yep, you do sound like a bitch. and Hypocrat.FMC as likeable as she seemed at first kept having the same thoughts over and over again.