This is the first book in the series, but it's not the first one I've read by the author. A few months ago, I came across a post on one of my FB groups where a reader was gushing about a book called Lullaby Scars. I picked it up out of curiosity and fell in love with it. I couldn't stop talking about it, and I recommended it to everyone who asked me for a romantic fantasy novel.Fast forward to last month, the author asked me if I'd be interested in reading Little Fire. I was shocked and happy at the same time, and it took me a few seconds to process the feeling. Then I let out a breath I didn't know I was holding 😉 and responded like a woman saying yes to a marriage proposal.I cannot express how happy I am for receiving the opportunity to read an ARC of the book. It is absolutely amazing, and the author has outdone herself this time. It surpassed all my expectations, and I now have another addition to my list of favorite authors.Coming to the story, the writing flows beautifully. Every aspect of the book is well planned and executed to perfection. The characters are written in a way that will make you love or hate them. When I read, I tend to imagine myself in the place of my favorite female character, and the fact that I could connect to Evangeline on such a deeper level, made me love the story even more.Declan, though physically powerful is broken inside, and I'm a sucker for such male protagonists. He did annoy me a few times, but I saw him evolve as a person throughout the course of the book, and it was immensely satisfying.The supporting characters did a marvelous job in helping the story move forward. Their unique personalities, motivations, and reactions kept the story interesting. I would have liked to see more of Alexander, Declan's brother, but that didn't affect my enjoyment of the book.The world-building was just the right amount. It didn't go on and on with every minuscule detail about the geographical and political aspects, but there was enough information to paint a picture.I experienced so many emotions in a matter of 2 days, from anger to joy to sadness and anxiety. I kept messaging the author obsessively with a running commentary of my feelings. I even cursed the villains a little. I stayed up till 2.30 a.m last night and refused to sleep because I wanted to know what happened next, but I finally gave in and finished it today.There were a few twists and turns with some mystery thrown in the mix regarding Evangeline's past. Even though I had guessed some of it in the beginning, it did not take away from the revelation that happened towards the end.The romance, the tension, and the intimacy were superbly done. I liked the sex scenes, as it focused more on the emotions rather than the physical aspect. I'm not averse to smutty scenes, but it felt extra special in this case.The ending was action-packed, and I was so hyped up while reading it. I'm also glad that it ended in a HEA. Even though there are some unresolved issues, there wasn't a cliffhanger, which had me feeling relieved.Overall, this book is a masterpiece and everyone who is a fan of the romantic fantasy genre with a fast pace should read it. While you're at it, go read Lullaby Scars as well, which is a prequel to this series.