Listening to the new Graphic Audio version.I'm loving all of the Graphic Audio releases of one of my favorite series. Having an entire cast of voices actors and sound effects just makes everything more epic!!!Reread of the Kate Daniels series with my friends atIlona Andrews Addicts (IAA)only a few weeks to go beforeMagic Bindscomes out.What is it with this series. Everytime I reread a book in it I love everything even more.Original Review July 2014:3.5 Roland You Are a Bad-Ass Starsrounded to 4 stars because of my love affair with all things Ilona Andrews.“How did I turn out? Are you proud of the monster you made?”I really don’t want to spoil anything for anyone so I will have a lengthy thoughts, feelings and theories in the spoiler section at the bottom.WARNING:Do not click on the spoiler tag unless you want to know almost everything that happened in this book.It has been a week since I read this and I feel like I can at least put my feelings into a comprehendible review. There are some things I really loved in this book. There are some things I really hated in this book. And there are a few things that I’m still on the fence about. But this is one of my favorite authors and so while some arcs were resolved there were also some big bombs dropped and a great set up for the finally trilogy part of this series.That is why this felt more like a middle book transitioning than a final epic battle.This beginning starts out pretty strong, well minus the prologue that is completely bipassable if you read the last books, it was just a summary of what has happened up until now from Barabas (theories on that in spoiler). Kate and Curran have had some down time since coming home from Europe and seem to have fallen into a steady rhythm. But, all too soon he is called away to negotiate with other shifters about access to panacea though and Kate is left to go to the monthly Conclave meet alone. What could possibly go wrong? Well it is Kate so the correct answer is EVERYTHING.This is like most of the other books so far, where Kate runs around trying to solve the mystery and almost getting killed many times along the way. There is banter and jokes and fighting of inventive and creepy creatures.”How did the French kill it?” Derek asked.“They send a Christian virgin out, and she bound it with her hair and led it back into the city, where the citizens slaughtered it. We don’t have a virgin handy.”“No shit,” Desandra said.The central monster bared her teeth, They were thick, sharp, and crooked.“Quick, Derek, it’s your chance to shine.” Ascanio said.Derek gave him a withering look.“Desandra is a mother, Robert is married, Kate’s affianced, and I’m an old soul. You’re the closest thing to a virgin we’ve got. Get on with growing some flowing locks.I was really enjoying everything about the book at this point. I really loved the expedition involving Derek, Ascanio, Desandra and Robert. It was the funniest chapter in the book and Desandra really became one of my new favorite characters, I hope she continues to be in future books.Hugh is still trying to get to Kate. I have really liked Hugh as the adversary and while he is darker in this he steals the page whenever he is on it. Hugh has a plan but Kate is not one to go alone quietly and she resists him every step of the way. Hugh might have stepped over the crazy line though altogether in this one”Long term, I want to win. And I will win, Kate. You’ll put up a good fight, but eventually you’ll be sleeping in my bed and fighting with me back to back. We’ll be good together. I promise you.”“What part of no don’t you understand?”“The part where I don’t get what I want. You need to be taught your place. It’s not the Keep”There is this section in the middle that gets a bit muffled and has extra stuff that wasn’t needed or I just missed Curran so much I was distracted and didn’t care as much as I might have. I will say that when I re-read through some of the trip down the rabbit hole I got a few more things out of it and I enjoyed getting to delve deeper into Gastek’s past and find out what his true motivations are.The only thing really missing for me was Curran. I really felt like he was missing for 2/3 of the book. That might be a slight exaggeration but I really wish he would have come back into the story a little earlier. I was actually so happy when he a Kate were back on page together that they could have been sitting in a room reading a book and I might have been just as happy. But no they are struggling for their lives as always so it was interesting.Kate learns even more about her family and her power in this book. Some of it was weird and this is the part where I’m still not sure how I feel about the story. But it wasn’t dull to say the least and I loved how Curran no matter what is happening and what new facet of Kate or her family is revealed he just rolls with it.“Do you know what most people have from their grandmother? A tea set. Or a quilt.” Curran smiled. “If your family had a quilt, it would be made out of chimera skin and stuffed with feathers from dead angels.”But the biggest surprise I found in this book wasROLAND. His character is the definition of dichotomy. He seemed almost charming and fatherly at times, but then you see the towers he built and he talks of the destruction he has wrought and it is as if the two aspects don’t join up. I know he isn’t a nice guy, just look at how broken Christopher is after being his guest/prisoner, but I really liked him.“When he decides to do away with us, he’ll do something elaborate, like send us magic seeds, which will sprout beautiful flowers with poisonous pollen. The pollen will root through our veins, we’ll die in agony, but out corpses will be covered in gorgeous blooms. If he’s feeling like making a statement, the flowers will drip blood just for fun.Roland smiled. “Death should have a terrible beauty to it, don’t you think?”He has a plan for Kate and I have no idea what it is but it seems like it might be one hell of a ride. The ending and set up for the next book is what really saves this book for me. I loved the last 15% of it so much. I can see why there needs to be another three books to deal with the Roland arc and I’m totally in for the ride.Now onto all the spoilery stuff I want to talk about:FINAL WARNING DO NOT CLICK UNLESS YOU HAVE COMPLETED THE BOOK OR WANT TO HAVE THE ENTIRE THING SPOILEDOkay so I have thought long and hard about this book and even had a detailed discussion withJessicaabout some of it as well to come to a few conclusions or theories.1)	Barabas’s intro to the book. I really didn’t understand why this was in the book. It seemed unnecessary because none of the other books have had any kind of re-cap. But I am wondering if it was done this way so that Barabas has a reason to be in Kate’s life in the next books. Since they left the pack and are severing ties he really wouldn’t have much reason to still be a part of their lives. But if he is writing a history of Kate or rendering a book about what is happening then there is an excuse for him to still be involved. Plus he was Christopher’s main watcher/babysitter and I hope that will also play into the future books. I NEED to know more about Christopher and as discussed with Jessica I totally want to jump on a ship involving them.2)	I didn’t like that Kate didn’t get to say goodbye to Julie in person or on the phone, I sorta live for those touching moments. I would have felt a little better about this if Kate had asked Barabas to retrieve a letter for Julie or if she talked with her on the phone to tell her why she had to get out of town. While I do think that Julie would skedaddle without much of a fight because this has to do with Roland and after book 6 where Kate explained her blood and Roland being her father and how he would want to use Julie I think she would fight against it too much.3)	Andrea being pregnant, I was a little meh about this. I just worry that this will be a way to move Andrea and Raphael out of the picture a little bit since they will be busy with a kid and being Alpha’s. I really like the friendship between Andrea and Kate so I hope she isn’t moved out of the books completely. Andrea did come on the rescue mission even though she is pregnant so maybe I’m overthinking it. It will be interesting to see where they take that story line.4)	Was Kate able to claim the city 100 years before she should have been able to do so because of Curran’s ancestors bond with the land? He was touching her and she still felt the power flowing into her so I wonder if he was able to channel his power into her for that. Seems likely so far.5)	Okay so I know some people feel like Kate waiting for Curran to rescue her was anti-Kate behavior but I totally bought it for the following reasons. First, she tried to find a way out and it all seemed pretty secure. Finding out later she was in a cell at Roland’s tower I don’t think there would have ever been a way for her to escape. Second, it showed the level of trust that she has come to have for Curran. She isn’t alone anymore and knows it, he will do anything and everything to save her. Third, Gastek was there if she were alone in the cell I think she might have gone to Hugh to settle it by herself, but if she left Gastek it would ensure that he died. Even though they aren’t great friends, she knows him and they have helped each other a few times. Kate puts her neck on the line for anyone in need so I don’t think she could have left him there. Last, her sword was broken. Even if she went to have a ‘discussion’ with Hugh, she had nothing to fight him with and she was weak. Bad position to be in all around.6)	Hugh went a little cray-cray. Most men would bring you flowers. Hugh kills all the people he thinks have slighted you and tells them to beg you for their lives. His obsession with Kate is extreme. He is much darker in this, I was sure he was in on the shape shifter killing somehow so that was not a surprise. I’m sure he thought that he would paint Kate into a corner and she would come with him willingly to save the pack from war with The People. When that didn’t work out he decided to kidnap and starve her to death. I really didn’t get many of his motivations in this one, he seemed to go off the deep end. I’m not sure if he was hoping that she would join him and they would put up a fight against Roland together later, or that he would be in a better position with Roland if Kate cared for him. Also, how is he not dead!!! I really thought to close out one of the arcs Kate or Curran would kill Hugh for good but he is like a cat and has nine lives.7)	Kate, Kate, Kate *shakes head* why did you have so much faith that Curran would come to save you and then so little faith that he would do ANYTHING to keep you. When Roland tells her she can’t be Consort and have power over the pack she is so sure that Curran will choose the pack over her. This seemed a little odd since in book 5 he already told her he would give it up for her. So I guess Kate still has some doubt in her heart.8)	NICK – well that was interesting. Nick Feldman is of a relation to Greg. I’ve learned a little bit of their plans for this storyline and I’m so in. I think it is a great addition and can’t wait to see how they roll it out in the books. I’m sorta hoping that Nick takes over the order operations. That would give Kate access to the high ups in the Mercs, Witches, Order, People and Pack, a very interesting position to be in.9)	The Desandra and Jennifer alpha mess. Wow Jennifer I never liked her at all but she rose to new heights of hate in this book. I did love the Kate verbal smack down that was given. Desandra was a surprise, I totally loved her in this book. She was funny and so irreverent and her reasons for wanting to be the alpha of the wolf pack was great. I loved the comic relief she provided. I really hope she is in the next books, although I heard a rumor and if it remains true we should totally see more of her.10)	Kate and Curran left the pack….I totally wonder how that is all going to shake out. With Jim at the helm I’m sure they will still have pack access and support of some kind. But I really love some of the pack characters and hope they still get page time. I think Derek and Ascanio will since they work at Cutting Edge for the time being and Andrea and possibly Doolittle since Kate is always getting hurt. I’m very interested in how that will change the dynamic of the story.11)	The Witches. How much did they know going into this. They made Kate that wool sweater and told her to wear it for 24 hours because it will keep her warm when wet, but they couldn’t tell her she was supposed to claim the city or…idk how to avoid being teleported to a prison cell.12)	Revenge against Hibia and the silver chains dude…WOW one of the more gruesome scenes. Kate went a little off the deep end there and showed how truly cruel she could be. Had she not lost Voron and was raised a bit by Greg or if Roland had raised her I think she could easily have turned out like Erra or the version of her that Hugh is hoping she will dip into.13)	Roland at the end - He totally made the ending for me. It seems like he is going to test Kate out to help her grow a bit. I’m not sure if he is looking to die like Erra was, but he made that comment that it is not a bad thing to be killed by your blood. I almost think he is training her so that she can eventually kill him and possibly take his place.I think that is it, but maybe I’ll add more later.