(Warning: I don't spoil anything too badly I think. There is spoilery-y talk, however, which depending on how good you are at piecing things together may reveal more than I intended. You have been warned.)This book made me question whether or not it is possible to outgrow a genre. My belief before was that you couldn't because as long as you adjusted your expectations accordingly you could read anything and have some level of satisfaction. After all, I love picture books despite the demographic being fifteen years beneath me.Maya and the Rising Dark has forced me to reconsider my stance.If you have read Percy Jackson, Aru Shah, or Tristan Strong I'd say you've already read this to some degree. And that doesn't have to be a bad thing. A lot of people, myself included, can enjoy the same story repackaged as originality is not the end all be all of a story. It’s all in the execution. Obviously, I found the execution in this case lacking.The pacing is very poor. Like many mediocre middle grade or young adult books, it does not truly start until nearly 50% in. It spends an exorbitant amount of time on needless and/or rehashed exposition, emphasis on the rehashing. It doesn’t help that a majority of the info we find out in the first half is information the reader can ascertain to an extent by the synopsis. The rest could have been trickled out throughout the novel instead of info dumped before the adventure has a chance to start.Example: They go to an Orisha council meeting to see what the plan is for rescuing her father. At this meeting Maya gives a rundown of all the Orisha on the council despite the fact that she just explained about several of them when they made their first appearance literally the chapter before. To add insult to injury, there are other Orisha present for Maya to expand on. There is no need to go into detail about these same ones.When Maya does finally depart on her mission it’s boring because the world building is ill defined so as to allow Barton to do whatever she wants to keep the story moving. There is no internal logic or consistency.22% in the kids are confronted by a group of Dark Bringers. It is revealed Frankie has powers of some kind. She is unable to call them forth again as she was only able to do so before out of necessity. She had no idea she had these powers nor any means of control. Yet, at 52% when attacked again suddenly Frankie is wielding these powers as if she’s been practicing for years despite spending the intervening time mostly in denial. There's no discussion or amazement at her ability to do it again. Frankie herself isn't even shocked, she's just able to do it and the characters all act as if she’s never struggled a day in her life.They need to open a gateway to the Dark Bringer dimension. Once this is done, Maya doesn’t know how to close it. It’s suggested she can manipulate the code around the gateway to do so. Okay, but she had no idea she could do that when she decided to look for the gateway. So for all intents and purposes, it’s happenstance that it works. It’s written as if it’s an intuitive thing for Maya to achieve which comes off as a cop-out as this isn't a one-off. It’s part of a pattern not an anomaly.Maya does not have powers. This is a source of great insecurity. Boom, suddenly Maya is just able to use magic now.It’s indicative of how poorly developed the entire universe is, especially the magical systems. Conflict is practically nonexistent as a result. The kids are never in any real danger of being stumped or forced to figure out puzzles or meet any kind of deadline. They use magic to get out of every scrape. It’s not about wits or patience or effort. It’s all luck, coincidence or author manipulation.Example: Two Dark Bringers masquerade as Maya’s friends. Maya figures it out immediately, solely because the Dark Bringers are so stupid they can barely maintain the ruse. Why would they even be sent if they couldn't reasonably fake it? One of them can barely keep the hate out of their voice talking about her dad. The other didn't even know that Eli is obsessed with ghosts. They're so incompetent I don't see why this was even attempted. It’s an attempt to make Mayaseemclever without creating legitimate obstacles to prove it.When Maya gets her powers it’s due to her ever present staff being out of commission. I was actually looking forward to the staff being out of play in order to force them to work something out for themselves for once as the staff is a major crutch. Five minutes after it's gone Maya pulls powers out of her butt to get out of the current jam. It undercuts any sense of tension since it’s quickly rectified.Furthermore, the kids not actively striving to be better undermines one of the messages of the book.The reason the Lord of Shadows despises the Orisha is because of a mistake Maya’s father made that resulted in the massacre of his people ie the Dark Bringers. From a certain perspective the villain in this story is actually her father. Such nuance is completely lost as Maya is not encouraged to ever think critically.When she finally does it feels like an afterthought. Like Barron forgot this was supposed to be a theme so she hastily threw it in. As a result when you look closer at it many of the elements to it don’t fit.First off, 60% in is when Maya first considers she might have made a snap judgment about the Dark Bringers. Except it was made clear from the moment she found out the backstory 30% in that the Dark Bringers weren't exclusively bad. She should have known this from the fact that her father was super guilty for his participation in the killings. If the species was all trash then no one would have cared about their deaths. Instead it’s a great shame.Second, every Dark Bringer until they get to the Dark Bringer world is a nondescript, generic bad guy practically twirling their evil mustache. Not one is treated like a three dimensional character. They’re minions first and foremost. How am I supposed to feel sympathy for people who are presented as nothing more than an evil, mindless monolith? The only sympathetic moment - when the kids almost kill a couple of Dark Bringer children and light their farm on fire - is manufactured to kick off the plot thread. The almost farm burning is subsequently milked for all its worth because Barron hasn’t done enough world building to provide other examples of how Dark Bringers deserve respect too.Why didn't Barron have the trio meet ‘normal’ Dark Bringers? Why was so much time wasted on simply getting to the realm? Why wasn’t more time spent exploring the realm? If she wanted us to think of them in a more balanced, complex light we should have observed their society.Third, Eli straight up murders a Dark Bringer after the almost farm burning. They all feel bad momentarily before moving on never to feel bad about it again. The idea that the Dark Bringers aren’t all bad only just got introduced. If Eli was going to kill anyone it should have happened a lot sooner to have time for fallout. It defeats the whole purpose of establishing that Dark Bringers are people (of a sort) too, to immediately have the kids kill one without remorse. If you’re going to do it, at least give them consequences.Her two best friends are annoying and inconsequential. Frankie’s perspective on everything is narrow minded because she filters it all through a scientific lens. She initially doesn’t believe Maya about anything because it can’t be scientifically explained. Even after she can’t help but to believe she still uses science to rationalize every little thing. It’s exhausting since I can’t even technically say she’s wrong when the world isn’t developed enough to argue against her. Eli is unnecessary. Eliminate him, nothing changes whatsoever.Maya, herself, as a character is one note. She’s a slew of different middle grade female protagonists cobbled together. Nothing about her stands out. There was an opportunity to add depth by having her be conflicted regarding her father’s kidnapping since he’d also been lying to her, her whole life only Barron opts out of it in favor of Maya being ridiculously, boringly forgiving. It’s unrealistic she doesn’t have any messy, complicated feelings brewing.Every middle grade book I’ve read in this specific lane has disappointed me lately. It might be time to put this category out to pasture. Or authors could do better. Annoyingly, me letting it go is surely a lot more likely than these types of books getting better. I have Rena Barron’s young adult book on my WTR list. I still plan on reading it though I will admit I am wary now. I’m a completionist so I’ll be reading the sequel eventually. When, is anyone’s guess.