I liked this far more than I expected. I weren't that excited about reading it (i actually avoided starting it) but it was a more pleasant experience than I had previously thought.I liked the main character. I liked that she wasn't a virgin, which is an annoying theme in most of the other YA books, and that being sexually active as a woman wasn't shamed or strange in any sense. I liked the minor characters - Ash in particular - but also Fern, Raven (loved him although he is mentioned less than 10 times), Griffin, Blossom and a bunch of others. Sadly also Mal who, accordingly with my curse of liking minor characters that die, died.But of course, I had some issues as well;- The using of "bitch" and "whore" used frequently to adress the "bad" women in this book. Yes they were not good, and they certainly deserved all hate and other bad things that came of their actions, but to have the main character call other women degrading words (used against women) made me kind of pissed off. Especially the scene were Lark is attending dinner with her father and says that Belladonna "looks like a human's painted whore" for wearing a dress that is tight and "left nothing to the imagination". STOP THE SLUTSHAMING, especially between women, we get that enough from men as it is, thanks.- The fact that Lark went back to Coal in the end. Okay I get that she is guilty about chopping his hand of, but he was (is) an ass and honestly, he didn't let her go save their people. Drastic situations calls for drastic measures. I don't think it will last long but I guess she will have great sex in the meantime.- Granite being a "bad" guy. Honestly?- The unrealistic way Fern managed to survive and adapt in the human world. They talked about that as if no one could ever live there and also Lark had difficulties even eating human food? And yet Fern, who was described as not the brightest in the bunch, managed to get an apartment, go to the grocery store, cook, pay bills and a lot of other stuff that even humans have difficulties doing.- Larks friendship with Cactus. Or Cactus the character overall. They hadn't seen each other for 15 years and yet they acted as if they hadn't parted at all? He was a strange character as well, I can't put my finger on it, put something was certainly off. i don't know if it was because he couldn't be trusted or that he was just plain stupid but the way he interacted with Lark and Ash in the Pit was bugging me a lot.- I have very strong issues with main characters being super special or "chosen" etc and that all they do is perfect and all they say is just the right thing and they practically shit rainbows. I thought that was going to be the case with Lark as well, and well, she is a chosen one, but not in a way that obviously annoyed me. She made mistakes, everyone didn't like what she said, she didn't solve everything herself or perfect and it was at least somewhat realistic. The few things that did bugg me about her being the chosen was that 1) she was at once (without any previous training except lifting rocks and digging soil) perfect as an Ender. All her training went super well and she had very good stamina etc etc 2) she was of course her father's favorite child. Honestly that isn't a good thing, neither for her character or her father's, and why wouldn't he love his other kids? Raven for example (who isn't his child though) is a perfectly normal person with perfectly normal values, why is Lark so much more special? Favoritism of kids (a kid who is always the main character) will always bugg me a lot for it is very unrealistic. 3) only she could stand up to Cassava and, after a month of training, managed to defeat two Enders (who had been Enders for a very long time). There is a lot of other reasons and senses I got from reading but as they are hard to put down in words this will suffice.- That Lark could use mind-control once or twice but, in times of need, didn't. She did it and kind of knew she could and then she suddenly stopped using it? Why even have the power, or not bothering to explain why she can/can't use it at different times?- Larks on/off relationship with Ash. This isn't anything romantic, but more how she one second describes him as the only one she can rely on and the next she barely considers him a friend. I can see why she didn't trust him, he was a tool of Cassava after all, but the dismissal at the end, when he is no longer under Cassavas influence, has helped her gain power and get the fire, and has saved her life multiple times (and seen his memories of when her mother and brother died) and has gotten somewhat close, she leaves him (after almost dying) in Griffins care. "Ash and I may not be friends, but he'd helped me as much as he could while still being under Cassava's power, and i didn't want him to die". I'm not sure why she is explaining all this, it seems almost as she is convincing the reader (herself?) as to why she saved him, but with all the things he has done for her I thought it out of place. Also that they are not friends? I would think him very much a friend after going through that together, especially without Cassava's power being over him anymore.Also when Lark was training to be an Ender, one second her and Ash were fighting and the next she was showing him how she could see what power the elementals were going to use? She didn't even tell Granite about it but someone she constantly fight and obviously dislikes she do?That got a bit longer than expected but all in all, I liked it enough to be looking forward to reading the second installment.