If you need an escape from reality, if you want entertaining antics, awesome banter, fantastic humor, fun mysteries, and a quirky but loveable cast of characters, then this is the book for you.I laughed myself silly while loving the crazy chaos that unfolded in Riley and Nick's lives.Riley Thorn and the Corpse in the Closetwas a hilarious delight and I had a blast reading it!I was so excited to dive back into this world. The gangs all here from the first book plus some new ones too and I enjoyed them immensely. I loved all the different scenes and scenarios they created as well as some really priceless one-liners.There were so many great setups that had me laughing, I couldn’t get enough.Of course, there were some characters that stressed me out, so much so that I totally wanted to yell at them. Nick’s parents and Riley’s grandmother are something else and I liked the dynamic they created and I loved Nick’s attitude with them. I liked the mysteries being investigated, they were exciting and entertaining. I loved the building details and the hints and connections taking place as everything started to come together.As far as the romance goes, this is a continuation of Nick and Riley’s happily ever after and how they're navigating this new phase in their lives. I loved the chemistry and playfulness between them.I loved Nick’s dry humor and Riley’s quick wit mixed in with just the right amount of sarcastic banter.It was great to see how much Nick has grown and how Riley is embracing her psychic side. They have a few bumps along the way but they're all light and fun and had me smiling. Nick and Riley trying to connect (wink!) over the course of the story had its own special slow burn happening that had me laughing out loud.Everything wrapped up nicely and there was a great part at the end that already has me excited for the next book in the series. I can’t wait!This story had me grinning from beginning to end.Just to add, there are a lot of references to the first book in the series so if you haven't read it, I don't feel like you'd be lost reading this one. That being said, I'm all about reading in order so you definitely don't want to missRiley Thorn and the Dead Guy Next Door.Complimentary copy received from That's What She Said Publishing.