After being introduced to Maud in One Fell Sweep, I was excited that she got her own story with Arland. It was fascinating venturing away from the Innkeepers, though there are more about that history, too, and getting fully immersed into the world of the Holy Anocracy and vampires with another sizzling adventure.Sweep of the Blade is the fourth of the series that must be read in order.Maud takes Arland up on his offer to come home with him- well, sort of... She doesn't accept his marriage offer even though she loves him because she needs to see how it would be with them when they are on his home turf. Poor Arland's chances with her grow shaky when his House is asked to host the wedding of two people from neighboring warring clans and Arland's mother and some of the House are out to test his human lady's mettle. Maud was expecting that because that is how vampires' roll, but she needs to see Arland and those who come to know her not treat her and Helen like trash to be discarded which is what happened last time.As Maud negotiates the political game of House Krahr, she detects that something isn't right with the wedding party and her suspicions and little things lead to something big. Meanwhile, she shows her heritage as an Innkeeper's daughter when she deftly handles two visiting groups that the vampires in their xenophobic glory might have mishandled without her. Slowly House Krahr including Arland's mother who is it's leader learns that Arland wasn't a dupe when he fell for the fiery and strong earth woman.Maud is nothing like Dina and I was glad to see how the authors made this clear when she narrates her own story. That said, the sisters do have their heritage and loss of their parents in common that makes them vulnerable to abandonment and needing the strong men they are attracted to to see them clearly, see their worth, and seen them as forever partners. Arland was more than a pretty face on a muscled body and he does the work of proving he is very different from her deceased husband and his social climbing house.I loved meeting new races and their ways, seeing the vampires at home, action-packed scenes involving fabulous weaponry, and a romantic relationship build between Maud and Arland that includes his love for Helen, her daughter, as well.And, didn't that very last sentence involving a certain arbitrator named Klaus De Mille leave me excited for what is to come.My Graphic Audio binge of Sweep of the Blade continues and I was curious to see how this tale from Maud's point of view would change things. It was different, but just as good for delving into the story deeply and taking my imagination by hostage. Wonderful experience!I love the Innkeeper world and the blend of urban fantasy and sci-fi. Definitely recommend.