read this review on mymy blog!I genuinely don’t know where to start or how to review this book. The Spear Cuts Through Water is a book unmatched in storytelling and delivery and definitely my favourite book of the year. Despite it being told in a way I’m not accustomed to or done in other books, I’m in awe of how everything blended together to form a gripping story after a couple of pages.This book releases today and I’m hoping my review urges you to pick up this book and be immersed into this fresh world. Albeit it will not be everyone’s cup of tea but I do ask you to be patient with the story and let it guide you with the flow.“For you are the Moon who cursed us with this gift.”story within a storyI’m honestly a huge fan of this form of storytelling done right. It sets up the right stakes and there’s so much to explore, like peeling off layers of the story. Conveying multiple nested stories until it all clicks together is an art, one Simon Jimenez has mastered. There are several perspectives involved along with the use of 1st, 2nd and 3rd person to provide for all the twists and emotional impacts in the story. The summary doesn’t do this book justice, because as you’re introduced to the Inverted Theater, it’s as if you as a reader are witnessing the story unfold in that theater along with the unnamed narrator who is being told these stories about the Old World. And even though we hear from the minor characters, it doesn’t seem unnecessary, just something to help solidify the gravity of events.an epic fantasy at it’s coreThrough the unnamed narrator we witness the main storyline, about two warriors Jun, the grandson of the emperor and Keema, the disabled guard, who are roped into a quest to rescue a god from The Moon Throne, the tyrannical rulers of their land. With folklore woven effortlessly into the magic, action and setting of the story, The Spear Cuts Through Water has all elements of a fantasy world but the kind that’s surreal and unhinged in all those aspects. And a violent kind too, as the book definitely has gory themes but they perfectly fit into the characterization and world of the novel.Speaking of characters, I was immediately invested in Jun and Keema’s dynamic and the pure yearning they develop for each other. I loved being opened up to their complicated personalities, from reluctant travel companions to their love for each other.In fact most of the characters are very clearly imagined with necessary contributions to the plot, Simon Jimenez definitely has a knack for rooting characters into the reader’s brain within a short time.observes the manifestation of loveWe’re hit with the quote above at a point in the story where the narrator’s grandmother tells it to him and it accurately pierces the core of the story. We not only have a compelling and violent love story between the two protagonists but also see how love drives people’s actions, good and bad, and serves as a ray of hope. It’s brilliant how most of the characters are motivated by their want or scorn for love and Jimenez’s mind portrays the consequences for both in a fabulous way.brilliantly imaginedAs a huge lover of mythology and folklore in novels, I found the narrative of The Spear Cuts Through Water so engaging. It has an incredible and expressive prose, and with all the plot twists incoming reading this book was nothing short of a cinematic experience. Even though there was a lot to absorb, at times I was just left stunned by the writing and the emotion behind the sentences. Stunning imageries littered here and there left me in awe.I was so intrigued by the history of the world and the glimpses we get of it through Jun and Keema’s five day journey — and it’s not just a couple of perspectives but we get insights from the most insignificant characters in first person. I would normally be put off by it but I realised how well this structure worked for the novel as I wouldn’t have it any other way.I loved Simon Jimenez’s previous work, The Vanished Birds, and I’m happy to say that this too is a masterpiece and I hope he keeps serving. The Spear Cuts Through Water is an exhilarating and glorious tale, that if you’re hooked onto, will have you at the edge of your seat. It’s an ambitious and unconventional fantasy novel with heavy themes (check CWs) and a strange exploration of perspectives that might challenge readers, but I truly hope it finds its way to the ones who would appreciate the substance of the story!Also, if you want another glimpse into the author’s brilliant mind, readthis postabout the mapmaking of his book.Thank you Netgalley and Del Rey Books for the ARC!