This book was totally not bad. I really enjoyed some parts of this book. Some of the things Grossman was trying to do really came together in this book. There. Did I damn it enough with faint praise? I’m sorry. Kinda. I just really wanted this to be something…else? More? I dunno. I just think Grossman didn’t really deliver what I wanted…though I am totally willing to admit that I am perhaps holding him to unfair expectations. I guess I just wanted a little more bang than whimper in my conclusion to the story of Quentin Coldwater and the Brakebills magicians. Ultimately I think my dissatisfaction came from the fact that Grossman seems to have pulled his punches…and I also noticed some less than satisfactory things from the story as a whole as written in all three books that started to become apparent to me.First off: I really don’t mind that these characters are in many ways ‘unsympathetic’. A big complaint I see of these books (esp. the first one) is that everyone is kind of an asshole. Yeah. They kind of are, but I’m not bothered by that. They rang true to me and do, for the most part, become less asshole-ish (or at least different kinds of assholes) as the story progresses through the three volumes. I get where they are coming from and why they are such assholes…maybe it’s a generational thing, but I understand these people. They are my assholes.Secondly: totally not bothered by the obvious dual homage to Harry Potter and Narnia. Grossman wears his influences on his sleeve, but he’s never dishonest or simply slavish about it. Also Brakebills is totally *not* Hogwarts and Fillory is not really Narnia. He’s simply taken the basic ideas those worlds have presented and put a different spin on them. Of course the fact that I was never really invested in either of those worlds as a nerd (neither Potter nor Narnia ever really sparked my inner geekly fire) may mean that I’m willing to cut Grossman more slack than others in this regard.However, I do think there are some issues with the series as a whole, and this volume in particular, that left me feeling unsatisfied as I turned the final page on the adventures of Quentin and his friends. It’s been awhile since I read the first two volumes of the series, so my analysis on this may be a bit unfair or based on spotty remembering, but in reading _The Magician’s Land_ and trying to look back over the entire series I was struck with the fact that as far as the portrayal of his characters went I really feel that I have been led around by the nose by Grossman. I get the sense that throughout the series I have pictured each character as being a certain kind of person, not so much because that is what I saw in them, but because that’s what Grossman told me they were. One glaring example: it’s constantly being hammered into the reader that Quentin is ‘scary smart’, but you know what? I don’t know if I ever really saw him do anything that would have led me to that conclusion on my own. But, well, he has to be super smart to get into Brakebills, and the narration is constantly telling me how smart he is, ergo Quentin is one smart dude, right? I’m not so sure. There are definitely times, especially in the dialogue, where Grossman allows a character’s personality to shine through without authorial intervention, but I feel like whenever dialogue isn’t involved I end up being told what a character is like instead of simply being shown. Lev, c’mon: show don’t tell, baby! That’s like rule number one, right? I’d be curious to see if this idea holds up on a re-read of the series as a whole, but alas I won’t be getting to that anytime soon. I may be overstating this, but it’s definitely a sense that my reading of this volume, and remembrances of earlier ones, has left me with.I think another thing that grates for me when it comes to the Magician books is the pairing of ironic detachment in the story with a conflicting desire to be earnest. Maybe it’s a problem with the generation to which Grossman belongs – it’s a generation to which I belong, so I know where he’s coming from, but I find it a bit overdone. Fillory is probably the biggest case in point: Grossman presents it as equal parts ultimate wish-fulfillment fantasy world that is the land of heart’s desire and yet it is also epicentre of catastrophe for those that find it that comes to embody all that is wrong with that very desire. It’s a clever dichotomy that is worth exploring, but somehow Grossman just never seems to pull it off. In many ways it seems more like a binary on/off switch in the way he presents it rather than as a complex melding of opposite tendencies that ends up producing a whole other, much more interesting, entity.Ok and my biggest pet-peeve with the series over all? I just can’t suspend my disbelief about the world of the Magicians. So apparently there are many people with magical talent, dozens of whom (if not more) are taken to Brakebills every year (not to mention the other magical schools mentioned in passing). On top of this are the ‘hedge wizards’ like Julia, members of an occult demimonde who have twigged to the existence of magic and taught themselves how to exploit magic under their own steam. And yet there’s never any peep about these people in the ‘real’ world. To all of us muggles it’s just status quo, but there are thousands of these magic users in the woodwork? What exactly do all of these magicians do with their time? What exactly is the society of magicians like? Do they even have one? It’s never really made fully clear aside from a few references here and there to shadow companies that employ magicians as a front, or magician families living in a state of semi-aristocratic ennui indulging in minor magical hobbies. More tantalizingly there are references to a court of magical law and tales of magicians playing with the stock market or rigging elections to make things turn out the way they want, but these minor glimpses were never really expanded upon to my satisfaction. We never got to *see* any of this stuff, even marginally, it was always referred to obliquely. I mean why hasn’t anyone tried to take over the world? Who would stop them? What would be the consequences? Why do all of these magicians seem so aimless and confused? Why don’t they ever DO anything with their magic?! I mean yeah, I get that Grossman is trying to allegorize the plight of his generation in his characters, but does that mean that every single magician, and there must be a lot of them, are this aimless and uninterested in making their mark on the world? I dunno, kind of a geeky rant I guess, but it just struck me that I can’t really believe in the world Grossman has created because he hasn’t given me any concrete reasons for how it could be exactly the same as ours in appearance and yet have all of these apparently idle magicians in the background.In this volume in particular we see Quentin, newly kicked out of his dream world of Fillory, much more together than we’ve ever seen him before. He certainly seems better able to deal with adversity, though he does still seem, at the ripe old age of 30, to have not quite reached his quota of maturity. Is this what my generation is really like? Is this extended adolescence really so common? Sheesh, maybe so. Talk about a lost generation. Maybe it’s the resemblances that I see between myself and Quentin that make him such a frustrating character for me. In which case: kudos Mr. Grossman! Still: Quentin does often seem to be a bit of a cypher throughout this book. He does what he has to, when it has to be done, because the plot says so, but I’m not sure if everything he does really feels organic to me. I mean I can kind of see why he does what he does, but it sometimes feels like he’s following the plot coupons, not reacting like a normal person. It was nice to get to see him from the outside sometimes, as Plum’s point of view let us see him through eyes other than his own, but I still felt like he was a bit too amorphous to hold the place of hero in the series. I never really got a handle on who Quentin is, and maybe that’s because he never really got a handle on that himself, but I really would have liked a bit more to grab onto. Much the same can be said for the other characters: they played their roles admirably, and I know who/what they are meant to be, but I never quite got inside their heads enough, they never quite developed into real people for me. Sure they had a certain amount of complexity, but it still felt more like a given character type was having a few tags hung onto them to round them out…I just wanted more: or maybe less, perhaps if Grossman had fewer characters to concentrate on he would have been better able to realize them in a more effective way. I would point to the way Grossman developed Julia in book two as the exact opposite of this. I think that may be, for me, the very best writing Grossman has ever done. I really felt for Julia. I got to see who she was in a real and visceral way. I saw her conflicts, triumphs and tragedies from ground zero and they were truly compelling. Give me that for the others, man!Then there is the climax. In a word: it was way too easy. Grossman is obviously trying to tie up any loose ends he sees in the series, but it sometimes seems a bit too neat. I am spoiler marking the details for those who have not yet read the book:Alice is dead/MIA through magical catastrophe? No problem: Quentin brings her back easy-peasy using that spell he happened to randomly find in the Neitherlands. Quentin is going to be called to account for taking said spell and keeping it for a year by being incarcerated in the Neitherlands library? Wow, the actual enforcement by magical society for the transgression of one of their laws? And the guy enforcing it is so good he can beat the other magicians three on one in a magical duel when they try to stop him? Ah, don’t worry about it, Alice will just punch him in the face and that will be enough to cow him to follow you around and do what you say. Funny! And ironic! Right. Fillory is dying and there’s apparently no way to stop it? No worries: Quentin will take it upon himself to sacrifice the old gods, attain godly power to re-make it, and then give up said power right away. I mean, I just found this problematic on so many levels. Is it really his place to make the choice to sacrifice Ember? Doesn’t a god’s sacrifice in order to save his creation need to be done at his own behest? It just seems to kind of cancel out the whole legitimacy of the act for me if someone else makes the decision for him. And then when Quentin gains godly power to re-make his beloved world? Here we go, I thought, now he will have to sacrifice his humanity, his newly re-gained love, and everything else in order to be the new god of Fillory and keep things going, right? A real choice fraught with consequences! Um, not so much. He just gives up the power *poof* and Fillory is back, he gets to keep his humanity, he can see where things go with Alice, and everything is back to normal. I just felt kind of cheated. It was way too easy.So okay I’ve been really harshing on this book, but I still do think it’s totally worth your time if you’ve read the other books in the series. I see many other glowing reviews of this book, and maybe I’m just missing something obvious or being way too unforgiving. I guess I just liked the idea of what Grossman was doing so much that I really wanted a bit more than I feel he delivered. There were still some pretty great parts to the book, though. The magical transformation of Quentin and Plum into whales was great (Grossman seems to do a really good job at these transformation elements in his stories, I remember really liking the ones from the first book as well) and hinted at magical facets to our world that were tantalizing in their obscurity. I also enjoyed Quentin’s visit with Mayakovsky, that tragic master magician at Brakebills South. There was an interesting side story told in flashback about Janet that I quite liked as well, though I think he was maybe trying too hard to recapture his excellent work in Julia’s backstory from volume two and didn’t quite succeed on the same level. I guess I just didn’t think everything fully gelled together in the end. Or maybe it gelled together a bit too well. Whatever the case may be: don’t hate me Fillory/Brakebills lovers…I’m one of you, I just wanted more!