Well, I tried.When I found this new adult book for Cassie and I to read, I was so excited. Sadistic fae? An honest-to-god villain love interest who isn't secretly good and nice? Real enemies-to-lovers? And I cannot stress enough, sadistic and trickster-like fae in their natural state? Surely, I prayed, this will turn out well.Nope lol.I don't know if I'll ever do an in-depth review ofThe Unseelie Prince, but I can at least do a pros and cons list. Do keep in mind that the bar is low (and apparently getting lower all the time).What I Liked:- The cover is where it's at. More horny cover art for books tbh.- Valroy's character design and potential (pls refer to the dislike column for the rest).- When Valroy is alone or talks to other characters besides Abigail, his love interest.- How Valroy clasps his wings around him like a cape; it's theGargoylesvibes for me. (Oh, if only he could've been a Xanatos, rip.) He can also use his wings for violence. Wish he'd done that more.- The sea-monster Anfar is the MVP and the GOAT.- Absolutely no hint of MALE and FEMALE to describe fae.- Mate as a noun was only used once and not about the two leads.- No weirdly gendered language like "male satisfaction" and "feminine softness."- The fae here aren't only straight! They pretty much do whatever! (But really, hetero fae lmao.)- There were preternaturally beautiful high faeandmonstrous fae, sometimes at once.- The Unseelie fae were every bit as sadistic as they should be, with certain members being more humane and reasonable as outliers of the group.- How the Unseelie fae ruled at night with the Moonlit Court and the Seelie fae ruled during the day with the Sunlit Court.- How I could definitely tell how alien fae are from humans, not only in appearance but in perspective and philosophy.- The general world-building of the Underneath was interesting and imaginative.- From the Nameless to the goblin ritual, there is plenty of delicious nightmare fuel here.What I Disliked:- The book still feels like a rough draft. A good round of developmental, copy, and line editing should've been done before publishing.- Sure, Valroy was sadistic at times, but he was written inconsistently with too many ricocheting extremes. His reactions were so over-the-top about the slightest things but not in a way that was enjoyable or interesting for me. Mostly, he's what I would label a chucklefuck. This guy chuckled and chuckled and chuckled. He laughed uproariously, cackled loudly, and howled with laughter, and nothing was ever that funny or amusing, my guy.- In fact, the words "fun," "chuckle," and "cackle," should be taken away from the author in the hopes she can learn new words and ways to describe character interactions. How about "smirk"? How about a silent reaction? Those are good!- Abigail could've been replaced with a rock with how much agency she had. We're told she's a witch, but it doesn't really matter. She is at the whim and mercy of every single character and creature she meets, and she doesn't grow in any form.- Valroy's absolute control over the Maze and his supposedly godlike powers made the plot pretty meandering and boring.- Everything is so stacked against Abigail from the beginning that she literally can't effect any kind of change or make any impact, both in the Maze and outside it. As a result, she does nothing for a whole book besides walking around, bemoaning her fate, and almost getting murdered over and over... and not by Valroy, like you'd expect. A shame. Thing is, the author made this call, and it was a bad one. She could've made Abigail a contender at any time. She's a hedge witch, you say? Her magic is connected to the natural world? Then make it react in new, interesting, and powerful ways now that she's in the fae realm, which we're told is the more natural state of things. And yes, make it react in ways outside of Valroy's control. Make Abigail truly unpredictable since she's still very much an outsider here. I don't understand why thisdidn'thappen.- The attraction between Abigail and Valroy is so stale and unbelievable. The key to enemies-to-lovers in any form is that they challenge each other, and whoever has the upper hand can change at any point. Both parties should be forcing each other to be smarter, stronger while tension and attraction grows between them. If they hate the attraction, even better!- Instead, the author tries to force you to believe that Abigail is witty and somehow more interesting to Valroy than any other human woman he could possibly find. She does this by having Valroy say over and over again how muchfunAbigail is and how much it's a turn-on that she's angry at him about everything he says and does. I would like to inform Ms. Kingsley that most people experience anger to things that anger them, and most people would certainly be angry in Abigail's circumstance.- As a result, the conversations between Abigail and Valroy get so unbearable so quickly. I can't even call what they did banter because that would imply something was there to salvage as being clever.- Valroy also goes too soft for the heroine too soon with no real indication as to why. Again, Abigail is a wet tissue, so what's the deal?- It was also wild how Valroy never got angry at anything Abigail said and did. He just chuckled about it! Where was that moment when you feel the air suddenly shift and your hair rises because he's no longer smiling? Where was that moment of fear and dread that, if you made one wrong move, his anger would be unleashed upon you? In short, where was the villain I was promised? The villain I could take seriously instead of the clown I received?- As you can imagine, sexy scenes between the two leads were never sexy, even to my depraved heart and loins, because there was no chemistry between them. Pretty sure I was more turned on by the impromptu tent orgy than anything with these two. Their scenes were so mild, too. Just kissing and grinding and the threats of rough, life-ending sex. Bro, either do it or don't. I'm bored.- The amount of times that Abigail screamed/shrieked at something talking to her from behind (it's usually always Valroy) before tripping on a rock and falling down. I thought we were done with the stupidly clumsy heroine afterTwilight.How about the clumsy oaf trips and impales herself on a sword next time.- Oh, that reminds me: Abigail is given a magic sword early on that works for her becauseshehas magic, but she uses it only once. 💀💀💀 I had to read about her carrying around this sword and keeping track of belts for no reason.- So I kind of understand the loophole Valroy is taking with marrying a human woman over a fae, butwhycan't he just take the empty throne if he's already so insanely powerful to the point where no one can challenge him? Unclear.So yeah, tried it. Some good ideas and descriptions, but poor execution on the character, villain, and plot fronts. Very sad.