”He felt raw: the chronicle of his fiercest desire stripped from him by force.”After finishing “The Raven Boys” I have about a thousand of questions, the most pressing one however is the following:Why did I wait so long to read this freaking awesome book???I mean seriously!!?? What’s wrong with me!?How could I survive without knowing about “The Raven Cycle”?!I loved this book! It was so magical and mysterious and all the characters were so unique and well developed! What I loved the most was the way they interacted though! Those four boys have such a deep friendship it’s almost unbelievable! They care so much for each other, yet they all have their own troubles and worries that constantly seem to get in their way! Each and every single one of them is somehow broken, but together they are whole! Gosh!! I can’t even describe how wonderful they are but suffice it to say that this book is going to turn your world upside down! ;-) Well, that and your emotions! Jeez! This was such a roller coaster my hair is still messy and tangled from the ride! *lol*I guess to know what I’m talking about you just have to read the book and make this experience for yourself. I’m pretty certain the majority of you won’t regret it and I can almost guarantee that sooner or later you will realise that you’ve grown fond of“The Raven Boys”as well! ;-P They just have a way to sneak into your heart and once you’ve opened up there is no going back! XDThe plot:”More than anything, the journal wanted. It wanted more than it could hold, more than words could describe, more than diagrams could illustrate. Longing burst from the pages, in every frantic line and every hectic sketch and every dark-printed definition. There was something pained and melancholy about it.”Blue Sargent is the daughter of a psychic and has grown up in a family that knows and sees things others don’t. Every member of her family has a special talent and so does Blue! She’s some sort of supernatural amplifier and is able to strengthen the abilities of others, yet she can’t use her gift to see ghosts as well. Well, at least not until the night of St. Marks Eve when she meets the ghost of a boy named Gansey. Apparently the only reason she’s able to see him is because he’s her true love and before she even knows it, Blue is already smack in the middle of a magical quest that drives her straight into the arms of a group of four Aglionby Boys. There are only two problems: First, Blue swore herself never to get involved with any of the Aglionby Boys and secondly, there’s a rather dark prophecy that claims that she’s going to cause the death of her true love…The characters:”But Gansey was already grabbing the car keys to the Pig and stepping around his miniature Henrietta. Even though Ronan was snarling and Noah was sighing and Adam was hesitating, he didn’t turn to verify that they were coming. He knew they were. In three different ways, he’d earned them all days or weeks or months before, and when it came to it, they’d all follow him anywhere.”This is the moment where I tell you that you’ll be hopelessly spoiled if you continue to read my review! So consider yourself warned and proceed at your own risk! ;-PGansey:”As always there was an all-American war hero look to him, coded in his tousled brown hair, his summer-narrowed hazel eyes, the straight nose that ancient Anglo-Saxons had graciously passed on to him. Everything about him suggested valor and power and a firm handshake.”Gansey is so precious!! He is some sort of mother hen and cares for all of his boys and I just couldn’t help but had to love him for it! Alone the way he expressed himself, how he spoke, what he thought and his journal, gosh how much I adored him for writing his journal!!! This boy is pure poetry and whenever I read his POV I was so intrigued that I just wanted to read even more! XD I loved how he worried about Adam, Ronan and Noah, how he knew that he appeared to be arrogant but still couldn’t seem to be able to change it. Oh, how he broke my heart! And then his story about the hornets’ nest!? Gosh it gave me the creeps!! I’m allergic to bees and wasps as well and when I was about eight years old I made a rather similar experience. *shudders* THIS hit way too close to home and I actually had to stop to read when he told his story! ARGH! I’m getting goose bumps just thinking about it! *lol* I really don’t know how he’s going to deal with Adam’s betrayal and I can’t wait to find out in the next book! I just hope their relationship isn’t broken because of it!!”Adam was struck, as he occasionally was, by Gansey’s agelessness: an old man in a young body, or a young man in an old man’s life.””In the end, he was nobody to Adam, he was nobody to Ronan. Adam spit his words back at him and Ronan squandered however many second chances he gave him. Gansey was just a guy with a lot of stuff and a hole inside him that chewed away more of his heart every year."”My words are unerring tools of destruction, and I’ve come unequipped with the ability to disarm them. Can you believe I’m only alive because Noah died? What a fine sacrifice that was, what a fine contribution to the world I am.”Blue:I really liked Blue! She was so nice and kind and even though everyone told her to stay away from the boy’s she was just too curious to actually go through with it! *lol* I loved that she always tried to see the good in those four boys, especially Ronan! ;-P And it was sooo damn sweet how she interacted with Noah!!! =))) Those two were amazing! *lol* Whenever Noah patted her head I was like: Awww!I think I kind of low-key ship them even though I know that this is never going to happen! Haha! I’m really curious how Blue’s character is going to develop and I can’t wait to get to know her even better!Adam:”Unlike Ronan, Adam’s Aglionby sweater was secondhand, but he’d taken great care to be certain it was impeccable. He was slim and tall, with dusty hair unevenly cropped above a fineboned, tanned face. He was a sepia photograph.Oh, Adam!!! He’s such a precious cinnamon roll!!! I love this boy and I’m so sorry that he had to endure the abuse of his father!! How could he dare to hurt my precious boy so much??!! I could understand why Adam wanted to be independent and didn’t want to rely on Gansey! He wanted to do things his way and I respect that! Still, sometimes he was a little bit too stubborn for his own good and I really wish he would have accepted Gansey’s offer to live with him! I can’t bear the thought that he’ll never be able to hear on his left ear again and gosh I’m so glad Ronan came to his rescue and intervened!!! XD I think of all the characters in this book, Adam actually went through the biggest character development and I really hope that he’s going to be okay in the next book! I know why he woke the lay line but I’m worried about the price he’ll have to pay! >_<”The ripped knees of Adam’s camo cargo pants appeared first, then his faded Coca-Cola T-shirt, then, finally, his face. A bruise spread over his cheekbone, red and swelling as a galaxy. A darker one snaked over the bridge of his nose.Gansey said immediately, “You’re leaving with me.””It means I never get to be my own person. If I let you cover for me, then I’m yours. I’m his now, and then I’ll be yours.””Where do you live?”Adam’s mouth was very set. “A place made for leaving.”“That’s not really an answer.”“It’s not really a place.”Ronan:”Gansey had once told Adam that he was afraid most people didn’t know how to handle Ronan. What he meant by this was that he was worried that one day someone would fall on Ronan and cut themselves.”Well if that quote doesn’t describe Ronan perfectly then I really don’t know! XD Oh, man! That boy was so awesome! XD I loved his grumpiness and his attitude! Despite his rather mean and very honest statements he seemed to have a pretty soft side and even though it was hidden so well, there were still some moments when you could see it! =) I wish we would have gotten his POV as well, but I guess Maggie had her reasons to hold it back! Hopefully we’ll get Ronan’s POV in the second book though and if “yes”, you’ll certainly read it in my updates. *LOL* I’m curious to find out more about his background and I really want to know why he and his brother are at odds! AND what happened to his father?!! This question is still playing on my mind and I can’t help but wonder what happened when he found him!”Ronan kept staring at Whelk. He was good at staring. There was something about his stare that took something from the other person.””You look like a super villain with your familiar,” Adam said.Ronan’s smile cut his face, but he looked kinder than Blue had ever seen him, like the raven in his hand was his heart, finally laid bare.Noah:”Noah, unlike his pristine room, always seemed a little grubby. There was something out of place about his clothing, his mostly combed-back fair hair. His unkempt uniform always made Adam feel a little less like he stuck out.”I’m so sorry that he’s a ghost! I already anticipated it because I picked up on the clues, but I really wish my perceptive mind would have been wrong! *sighs* I never liked Whelk and I can’t understand how he could kill such a nice and cute boy!! I mean he was his friend!!! Poor Noah! To be betrayed like that! Still, I’m glad they managed to get his bones to the church and I hope he’s going to be a permanent part of the next three books! =)”I’ve been dead for seven years,” Noah said. “That’s as warm as they get.””Can we go home? This place is so creepy.”The ships:Gansey & Blue:He paused, his smile wide and benevolent. “This is all down to you. Putting us on the line, finally. I could kiss you.”Though he was obviously joking, Blue skittered to the side.I loved those two right from the beginning! They have such a nice chemistry and I can’t wait to see how they’ll fall in love! Right now it doesn’t seem to be likely, but we all read about Blue’s vision in the tree and I have no doubt that they’ll actually end up together! I guess I’ll just have to wait and see what Maggie Stiefvater has up her sleeve! *lol* ;-PRonan & Adam:Adam and Blue Who? *looks innocent*Ronan said, “I’m always straight.”Adam replied, “Oh, man, that’s the biggest lie you’ve ever told.”I know this is no official shipBUTI WILL GO DOWN WITH THIS SHIP!!!! I swear there were so many moments between Adam and Ronan and if they don’t get together in one of those four books I’m going to cry a freaking ocean!! I mean it!!! I’ll die if Maggie Stiefvater doesn’t work her magic with those two!!! THEY JUST HAVE TO BECOME CANON!!! Period!!! Enough said! XD *faints*”As Adam stared at his lap, penitent, he mused that there was something musical about Ronan when he swore, a careful and loving precision to the way he fit the words together, a black-painted poetry.””He stroked Chainsaw’s head with a single finger and she tilted her beak up in response. It was a strange moment in a strange evening, and if it had happened the day before, it would’ve struck Adam that he rarely saw such thoughtless kindness from Ronan.”Artist credit: ranoki @ tumblrThe bottom line:I LOVED THIS BOOK!!! I loved it with all my heart and all my being!!!Maggie Stiefvater is a genius and I can’t wait to dig my claws into the next book!! XD“The Dream Thieves” I’m coming!!!P.S: Before I forget: This was a buddy read with the amazing Katherine and I’m so glad we could experience this together!!! You were the perfect buddy to read this book! ;-)