I originally set the rating of this book at 4 stars, but decided it needed to be moved up to the 5 star level. I don't find it as good as many of the books I rate 5 stars, but it drew me in and held me tells a story that beats 4 stars. So, without the much lamented 4.5 that so many of us here pine for, I've rated it 5.So, I like the book and give it the highest rating possible here (albeit noting it's not at the top of my 5 star pile)...what's so good about it? And, if it's not at the top of the 5 star category, where does it fall (a bit) short?Well, first of all the worst thing about this book is....that the next (second) volume of this trilogy is nowhere in sight along the literary horizon. I know, I've searched. I put off reading this for a long time fearing exactly this situation. Having read theThe Night Angel Trilogyand liked it, I suspected I'd like this one. However where I bought the entire Night Angel trilogy in an omnibus and read it straight through...I'm now into another series, at the mercy of a writer, his agent, editor, publisher and whoever else may be involved. How many series am I stuck in the middle of? I dare not think about it.Oh well. Let us move on.The book starts out well jumping into the story and laying a bit ground work we will need for the "plot devices" and the magical system.There are in this book a LOT of stereotypical characters and plot devices or points. But, don't let that statement mislead and give you a negative idea. It would be all but impossible (if not totally impossible) to come up with a genuinely brand new plot and or character. Most any you can think of have already been thought of and used before. The key is to use them in original ways and make it interesting. Mr. Weeks does that.(I won't mention any of these "tropes" [I hate to use the word "trope", it's so over used and misused...however it's probably the best choice in this case]...tropes, here as that would entail spoilers.)The magic system in this book is relatively original (I've seen magic systems based on color/colors before (Brandon Sanderson recently had one in a popular book). Still I'd say this is a direct magic system with enough logic to hold together while also having enough openendedness to be built on later. In other words the colors each have their own properties but there's room for some surprises later. (Note there are a few glitches in his spectrum use, but nothing to be upset about. I remember spotting one that niggled at me at the time, but I've forgotten the specifics now).Moving on to plot and characters...well as I said you'll recognize some plot points from other (some well known) works. The characters are fairly well drawn and while maybe not as deep as some would like I find them to my taste and that they fit well into the book, it's world and it's situations. My one gripe might be with Kip, one of our main characters. Without giving details I'll simply say that he's a 15 year old youth of a peasant village who has had to fend for himself at least somewhat for years. Yet still for a long time he acts a bit spoiled and strikes me as acting more like a 12 or even 10 year old than a 15 year old. In a society of the type we find here a 15 year old would be a young man (at least).The book does lay out a mildly intricate story with well drawn characters that will (I believe) draw you in and...quite probably hook you. Which means you will, like me, end it restraining yourself from the use of foul language (or in some of your cases possibly not restraining yourself) as you realize that there is now the wait for volume 2 and after that volume 3...Uhhh....Mr. Weeks, I'm not a young man anymore. Try not to take too long, okay????Good book, recommended, enjoy.***************** Spoilers Below Line ******************I mentioned that you will note some "types" here. I'm about to mention a couple of spoilers so don't read on if you don't want to know...First we have Kip. The peasant hero. A young boy, fat and immature son of a somewhat abusive, neglectful mother who is a drunk and drug addict, he's also the illegitimate son of (duh, duh, duh) the Prism (read King or Emperor here). The Prism is a ruler (sort of king/religious leader/head wizard) who was forced to fight a war against his brother, who claimed to be The Prism, to see who's the REAL Prism. It was called The False Prism's war. The Prism (Gavin) was forced to kill his brother (Dazen). EXCEPT!!!! He didn't kill Dazen. The Prism's brother is imprisoned in a magical cell underneath the Prism's palace where only the Prism and his room slave know he is kept. EXCEPT!!! Dazen isn't the one in the cell! Dazen defeated Gavin took his identity and replaced him as Prism, imprisoning the elder (and less worthy brother). So...the Prism is Dazen, but everyone thinks he's Gavin...got that?Now the war was fought partially or maybe mostly over a woman...who is apparently extremely beautiful as not only the two brothers who fought the war fell in love with her...but so did the false king we meet later...who is rebelling against the Prism...who's not supposed to be the Prism...Oh, and of course that means that Kip who just found out the Prism is his father is really the nephew of the man he's calling father...There are other plot points like the Prism being forced by circumstances to kill most of the woman he loves family (I don't recall any of them being named Tybalt...but I won't swear to it)...Get the picture? The Man in the Iron Mask (movie version, not book)...Romeo and Juliet...peasant hero...brother kings fighting over same woman (who by the way is updated a bit as she has gone on to become a "kicka** warrior". No wilting violate love interest here), there's also a rebel general and his child (daughter)(who knows better than anyone else and will not listen to anyone especially the said father) as seen in sooo many places. No need to go on.BUT...let me say again these are all handled well and the fact that you'll spot all these doesn't really take away from the book. They are handled well and we all know that stereotypes become stereotypes precisely because they sometimes actually are common or in literature work well. These plot points are well done and fit together very nicely...you can even follow the story without a separate program to keep track of the players. :)Again, I like it. I recommend it. Enjoy.