This is definitely the start of a fantasy series. I suspect Barker is "holding her breath" in terms of continuing as her publisher waits to see if this story does well. I hope it does — it is a Goodreads Choice Nominee for Fantasy in 2013. I just gots ta know what happens next!My TakeI enjoyed this very much. It starts out feeling like Deborah Harkness'All Souls Trilogyseries, but quickly veers into fantasy when Nora exits this world on the basis of a wish. It has a lightweight quality, but it certainly isn't juvenile in spite of it being a little bitNarnia, a little bit All Souls, and bearing a kinship to Mercedes Lackey and Rosemary Edghill'sBedlam's Bard, Seanan Maguire'sOctober Daye, Richelle Mead'sDark Swan, Karen Marie Moning'sFever, and Allison Pang'sAbby Sinclair.Nora is the main story with Arundiel's past coming to light in bits and pieces, allowing us to learn more about his world and its customs. I do like hearing about a magic that doesn't wear one out or have to be husbanded. It gives Arundiel, and later Nora, the opportunity to do lots of small good throughout the story. It feels more real than the great magics. The Faitorens' magic seems to be different. More one of illusion and compulsion. It's certainly a come-down for them from their magnificent beginning.I am annoyed that I can't tell where she begins. It could be England or America, although the mention of Asheville makes me think North Carolina. What college is she attending? If faerie food has no substance, and Hirizjahkinis is so very hungry after her three days, why isn't Nora MUCH hungrier after all the time she's spent with them? Why doesn't Nora ever question that voice in her head?The reasoning behind the demon names is too funny, and yet it does make sense. After all, how would they know about human culture? I like Barker's reason for how magic works too. It's a very empathic science.Barker makes great use of all sorts of incidents of aid, judgment, translation, and conceit to give us a sense of Nora, of Arundiel, and his world. The woman whose child was eaten and the incident of the cobbler are two of the most memorable. I certainly don't see why Arundiel had to make such a fuss about that last one. It was his own fault.Arundiel annoys me often. He's so judgmental of Nora, of her speech and her grammar, when she's only now learning his language, about his culture, and about magic. He has no patience, and it's not fair. I shouldn't have thought him so insecure. But perhaps he's simply too grand to remember his own first days.LOL, Nora eventually learns that William Carlos Williams' poetry is what it takes to satiate an ice demon. I'm also curious to know if Barker plans to use Arundiel's weakness at math sometime. I do hope Barker plans a second installment. We've been left at the gate, so to speak, and I want to open it again.The StoryAngry with how her life is unraveling, Nora takes a walk into the mountains, a walk that takes her much further than she knows. It's hard for a scholar like her to be adrift in such a world as Arundiel's, especially after her sojourn amongst the Faitoren.She can't read the language, women are second class citizen with a grammar specifically for them, and Arundiel's life is a mystery of magic. One she wants to understand.Then there are the Faitoren. There's supposed to be a treaty in place, one which the Faitoren ignore as they please. Just look to Nora and how they treated her!The CharactersNora Fischeris human and working on her thesis about John Donne. Only, she's stuck.EJis the older brother who died. Her mother is remarried while her father is married toKathy, and they have two daughters:LeighandRamona, the younger half-sister.Lord Arundielis a magician, a relatively old one, whose magic makes him younger. In his much younger days, he was an aide-de-camp toLord Burs of Klevis.Lady Lusarniev Arundielanwas his wife, who brought the Lusul estate as her dowry.Melindericwas a knight and Arundiel's friend and principal deputy on the estate. His siblings wereAtl Aruendies, the oldest son; thenArundic, a sister who married the Duke of Forel; and then, Arundiel. He was sent away to wizard school withOld Naxtfirst, and then to Lord Burs.Lady Pusieuv Negin of Forelis his grand-niece.Mrs. Ulunip Toristelkeeps his house and cooks whileMr. Toristeltakes care of most outside chores.Lolonais their daughter who married a brewer.Wurgais a portrait that becomes very angry.Other magicians include……Lady Hirizjahkinisis a close friend, although Arundiel disapproves ofKavareen, a demon spirit with whom she consorts.Micher Samlehas made a study of thin places where worlds touch. I'm wondering if he's Farmer Dahmer.Nansis Aborawas the peasant boy at Old Naxt's.Norsn.Klexin Ornasornclaims to have discovered the Blueskin observation spell. The one Nora and Arundiel use to visit Nora's sister.Euren the Wolfis reclusive, and one of the magicians to help bring Arundiel back to life.Dorneng Hulis fascinated by Faitoren magic and goes to guard the border.Hirgus Ext the Shornis really a wizard, a bald one.Yes, Barker has a lovely distinction betweenmagiciansandwizardsas well. Setting us up for the next in the series.In Arundiel's village……Losidoes laundry.Morinenis Corlil's daughter and a great bargainer,Reskis one of her brothers, and I thinkForiis their mother. Those with broken pottery includeCaddo, who isBig Faris' wife;Aunt Narlgives yarn;Pelinenis a widow with cows;Trouteyehas a lot of busted pots;Porsnis the tanner;Blue Dovedoes a lovely blackberry wine;Lus; and,Ferretis Morinen's second cousin and likely to hang.Bitarruns the general store.The case of the eaten daughterMassyis the mother ofGissy,Sova,Horl, her oldest son, are from an earlier marriage. Now, she's married toIrseln's father,Rorpin.Short Bernlis a pedophile and the accused.Semr is where……King Abele IV's seat is located.Lady Inristianis Nora's roommate in Semr, and she's desperate for a marriage alliance.Baroness FulvishinandSoristiaare her catty friends.Bouragnoris the king's chief magician, but not for long.Visonisis his chief military adviser.Queen Tuliviewas the current king's grandmother.Perin Pirekenies, a captain of the king's guard, is the oldest of nine, and his parents want him married.The FaitorenIlissais very good with illusions and appears to be their queen while her son,Raclin, is looking for a wife. Members of the court includeLily,Boodle,MoscelleandVulpinare tasked with babysitting,Lolly,Amatol,Gaibon,Lysis,Leptospeer, andOon, who is too great a flirt.Lord Luklren "Lukl"is the twelfth earl of the Northern Border and a hardscrabble lord whose lands border those of the Faitoren.Naomi Danzigeris Nora's adviser. I want to know more aboutFarmer Dahmer, the supposed grad student unable to complete his thesis! I have my doubts…Maggieis a friend.Adamis her jerk ex-boyfriend.TheNull Daysare our solstice. A time when there are days that don't fit.The Cover and TitleThe cover is a swirl of yellow ribbon showcasing the title against a backdrop of magic, woods, dragon, woman, and owl. It's a good collage of what's in the story with the dragon, Raclin, on one side of the ribbon divide and Arundiel and Nora on the other.The title makes this sound like a how-to manual, but actually it's having some fun with Nora, the unhappy doctoral candidate whose talent for finding life within poetry makes her ideal forThe Thinking Woman's Guide to Real Magic.