1 Star*A bloated, leaden behemoth lacking in any originality, character development, engaging plot, or good writing*If anyone compares this toThe Lord of the RingsorA Game of Thrones, throw this book at their heads. Maybe it will knock some sense into them.Ok, ok. I fully admit that I’m in a cranky mood, becauseI wasted so much time reading such an awful, boring, clichéd book.This is one of those cases where I wonder if I read the same book as everyone else did, because what I just read bears no resemblance to the book that people are gushing about.At the time of writing this review,The Priory of the Orange Treehas a 4.24 rating on Goodreads with 48% of those being five star ratings. Normally with a book this massive by an author I hadn’t read before, I would wait a bit and see if anyone other than hardcore fans thought it was worth the hype. But for some reason, I was sucked into the hype and the pretty cover and decided I needed to read it right away. It’s a story with dragons and magic and legends and female warriors and pirates and witches and lots of awesome-sounding stuff. I thought it sounded great!Obviously not my smartest moment.Ok, let’s break this down:SUPPLEMENTAL MATERIAL:Let’s start with the maps. The story is mostly split between the East and the West. There is a map for each. While at first glance the maps looked good, as I read the book, I became increasingly frustrated with the maps. Both maps run off the edges of the page with no clear indication of what lies beyond. There is no clear delineation of how the two maps relate to each other. The crests for each country float randomly on the edges of the page rather than being over the countries themselves. So if you took the map literally, all of those countries are under the sea. And the descriptions of the various countries and land features didn’t match well with the map. It was almost impossible to orient with the story. And for a story that spends a lot of time traveling and talking about multiple countries, this really crippled an already limping story.There is also supplemental material at the end which includes a list of characters, glossary, and timeline. The list of characters is somewhat helpful because there area tonof characters, and they’re too boring to keep track of. The glossary is also hit or miss in its helpfulness. For example, you’re really going to define “Wyvern” but not “Ichneumon”? The timeline is pretty much useless because it leaves off info to avoid spoilers for the plot.WRITING STYLE:The story itself switches between five main narrators who are mostly divided by whether they are in the East or the West. The narrative jumps between people within chapters, but at least it’s all told in third person.It’s written withYe olde Englishdialogue that feels corny and inconsistent. It is purposefully archaic at times but totally modern-sounding at others. The lines of dialogue feel like high schoolers trying to recite Shakespeare. It all felt so inorganic. Also, one random side note: there are a plethora of palanquins in this book. Despite taking place across different countries that are mostly cut off from each other, with different cultures and different terrains, nearly everyone in this story travels by palanquin. It makes no sense.CHARACTERS:Despite all of the allegedly exciting events, this is mostly a character-driven story. Andthe main characters are stiff and dull and tedious.The rest of the characters aren’t fleshed out and also lack personality. They pop up at opportune moments and pretty much cease to exist the rest of the time. And none of the characters react to their environment or situations authentically. They are stiff cardboard cutouts that only move when the author remembers to move them.Many people are callingThe Priory of the Orange Treea feminist version ofThe Lord of the RingsorA Game of Thrones. That’s total bullshit. The only thing they all have in common is being long with lots of characters. (I’ll add more about the alleged feminism later.) There is little else in common withThe Lord of the Rings. The comparison toA Game of Thronesmakes more sense. But only becauseThe Prioryis a total wannabe of theA Game of Thrones, not because they are anywhere near the same quality. They have similar medieval-esque settings in worlds where dragons and magic where once prevalent but are now mostly myth. They both have lots of characters. But there is a reason I always useGeorge R.R. Martinas a prime example of how character development should work. He is amazing at showing how the well-intentioned end up bad and how the evil can be redeemed. He writes complex characters with believable arcs, puts up genuine roadblocks, kills mercilessly, and leaves you constantly wondering who will prevail. Shannon tried to emulate that… and utterly failed at it. She was trying to be dark but didn’t have the guts. I think she just seems too nice to pull off any bloody machinations. Her evil laugh is probably a cute little giggle that doesn’t even make bunny slippers run for cover.The author’s previous books were all YA, and that shows. This writing very much felt like YA writing that the author tried to age up by killing some people and talking about nipples. This book elicited many eye rolls and snorts of derision from me. It might be better under the New Adult category since almost all of the characters are in their twenties and the story has an air of naiveté to it.WORLD-BUILDING:As shoddily as the characters were written, the world-building was worse. The story borrows bits and pieces from cultures and mythologies of Earth, but it feels like everything got thrown in a blender resulting in a messy hodgepodge that does not make sense. The worst part is how badly the world-building is relayed.This is one of the most awful examples of world-building I have ever read.History and myth are relayed clumsily, stiffly, and inorganically. One of the most common methods of relaying information is through inner monologue. There is one time when Character A asks Character B is she is familiar with a certain legend. Character B simply answers, “Yes,” then proceeds to inner monologue the whole legend! It was so bad! And nearly all of the background information was relayed like that – through dry info-dumps catapulted at random into the story.The narrative is so bogged down by information and filler descriptions that end up doing nothing other than adding to this book’s absurd length.Seriously, this book had no reason to be 830 pages long!If it isn’t lore added through dry monologues or longwinded descriptions of curtains then it’s background on the characters being stuffed into the story. It’s a whole of lot “Hello, Character C, whom I know through your position as Such and Such, and I am aware that you are a descendent of Don’t Care who did Blah Blah Blah waaaay back in the day.”PLOT:The sloppy world-building feeds into an underwhelming plot. Now, I knew the story had a slow start. Even many fans admitted that that the first 300 pages were slow. I didn’t realize that those people were seriously understating things!The first 300+ pages are bone-dry, dull, and unbelievably monotonous!It took memonthsto get through this book. And while the plot does finally manage to accelerate faster than a geriatric patient, it doesn’t speed up by much.The whole story lacks plausible threat and tension. There is more threat from political machinations than the “evil” dragons, but even that creates almost no suspense. It’s mostly senseless drama. There was never any doubt about how it would all end.There is so much wandering (fetch-quest style) and yet obstacles are removed with ridiculous ease. Over and over and over the charactersjust happento find the object they need, or some coincidence leads to their miraculous escape, or they arrive in a huge city and immediately find the one person they need to find. The entire plot is built upon these obnoxious coincidences. It removes any tension or suspense because you always know that another miracle is right around the corner.From the way people were weeping over this book and saying they were so devastated over the deaths… well, I thought some more people might die. Like, say, more of the many main characters perhaps? But without going into specific spoilers,the death toll in this book is absurdly low!Seriously, between the draconic creatures attacking, a supposedly incurable plague, warring nations, and betrayals from within, people should have been dropping like flies. Which circles back to my point about Shannon being too nice to murder her darlings.Remember all those exciting-sounding things I mentioned in the beginning? Well, they aretechnicallyin the book. But Shannon found a way to make dragons and magic and legends and female warriors and pirates and witches allmind-numbingly boring. For starters, the dragons are barely in the book! They are mostly there fordeus ex machina. Both good and bad dragons only pop up when the plot needs a big dose of fire to wake it up from its self-induced coma. And all those other exciting-sounding elements are barely present and/or so poorly described that it sucks all the excitement from them until nothing is left but dry, dull husks.Another huge weakness aboutThe Priory of the Orange Treeis the action. There hardly is any. And what little action does happen is horribly described! Shannon loses track of where characters and objects are within a scene. She totally relies on those lucky coincidences to resolve fights. All of the actions scenes are anticlimactic – particularly the end battle scene. But as poorly as the fighting is written, there are several more example of the author taking a complete copout, fading to black as soon as the fight starts, and then recapping it through boring dialogue after the fact! It was terrible!!THEMES:Religion is a major theme inThe Priory of the Orange Tree. The basis of the lore in this book revolves around various religions interpreting the same events in different ways and building their dogma around that. This theme had the potential to be insightful and powerful, but it was handled so poorly. So while the story borrowed from real-life conflicts, it did not bring anything perceptive or enlightening to the subject.Another reason people are raving about is the LGBT representation. But like the other elements of the story I have discussed, it is present but unsatisfying. There are only two reps in the book. One is a relationship that took place prior to the book. The other is a female/female relationship that happens during the story. Neither was written well. Because of the horrible lack of character development, none of the relationships in this book were remotely believable or poignant. When a relationship starts with one person fighting her feelings, liking her against her will, and eventually keeping their relationship a secret because she says she likes the forbidden secret more than everyone knowing… well, there is no way that is a healthy relationship. And the female/female sex scenes were awkward. I’ve never heard anyone, of any sexual orientation, wax poetic about someone’s knuckles!But the biggest annoyance and disappointment aboutThe Priory of the Orange Treeis that this was supposed to be a feminist story. IT ISN’T. Making most of your characters female doesn’t automatically make a story feminist. Making two of your characters lesbians doesn’t automatically make a story feminist. Switching gender rolls only to engage in the same sexist tropes certainly doesn’t make a story feminist.There is NOTHING empowering or inspiring about this book!This story has several allegedly strong female characters yet they all felt so hollow. That was mostly due to the substandard character development. They lack depth; they lack clear motivation; they lack any personality.So what does this alleged gender reversal consist of? Well, there is a queendom. But it’s ruled by women only because all of the heirs born happen to have been female, not because of truly being a female-ruled country. And the queen is little more than a figurehead being manipulated by others. Women are still cloistered, prized for their virginity, and seen as broodmares. So feminist, right?? There is a female dragonrider. I had hopes for her, but she is absent from large portions of the story, and her storyline is farfetched. Then there is Ead who is basically a magic-wielding warrior. But she has NO personality. It took a while, but I finally realized why she annoyed me so much: she reminds me too much of Nona fromRed Sister. And really, the Priory is basically the same thing fromRed Sister. They are both magic-wielding assassin nuns who are allegedly badass but are in fact boring as all-get-out. So now I know of two different authors who managed to make magic-wielding assassin nuns mind-numbingly dull! What a waste!This book was supposedly full of strong, badass women. But I couldn’t help but compare it to other books likeBloody Rosewhich had multiple strong female characters with distinct personalities, different strengths, different flaws, different motivations but all badass in their own unique way. And then I look back atThe Priory of the Orange Tree, and the first word that pops into my head is “FAIL!” To reiterate,making most of your characters female doesn’t make your story feminist.This book was a massive waste of my time. It took me three and an half months to slog through this and I absolutely had to force myself to keep going. The whole story is leaden and tedious.I deeply regret that I didn’t abandon it early on.More power to you if you slugged through this book and actually enjoyed it. But damn do I wish I hadn’t wasted my time on it.If you do still feel compelled to readThe Priory of the Orange Tree, I urge you to get the ebook. This isn’t worth getting carpal tunnel syndrome from lugging around the hardcover!RATING FACTORS:Ease of Reading: 1 StarWriting Style: 1 StarCharacters and Character Development: 1 StarPlot Structure and Development: 1 StarLevel of Captivation: 1 StarOriginality: 1 Star