A fantastic way to end 2017, and an absolute corker of a finale.This wasn’t quite as good as Crimson Campaign but it was one hell of a satisfying ending to a series and world that I have fallen utterly in love with.Obviously being the last book in the trilogy, I can’t discuss any of the plot without spoiling things so I won’t do that. Just know that the action, the pace and stakes were even higher in this one. So much has happened since Tamas started his coup at the beginning of Promise of Blood. War and destruction has changed the landscape (excuse the pun) and lives of everyone. Gods and magic are at the forefront to this story and as always, power is an imperative currency.As I said, I won’t talk about the plot. My review will be more about the trilogy as a whole. Just read the damn books okay? Please just read them and love them like I do. I can’t recommend them highly enough.So. Where the hell do I begin. Well, as I’m writing this review just after I finished the book and my emotions are running high, I guess I’ll start there.In my previous reviews for these books I’ve explained my love for the characters. Honestly I’m in love with pretty much all of them. Things get very tense in this book, as in, nail biting, screaming and yes, even tears towards the end. This cold heart can cry believe it or not, even when I was expecting the ending. It was bittersweet, it had to end the way it did, it was always going to. But being bittersweet it doesn’t make it easy to swallow. But it was so so satisfying. The sacrifices made were great, many of them were painful and made my chest ache. But the sacrifices were purposeful, none of them were done without reason and in the end it saved many many lives. It didn’t feel like a waste.I feel like all the characters grew in their own ways and became stronger and more resolved. Taniel especially, really grew up and although he still lets his temper and emotions get the better of him, his morals became firm, especially towards the end.Adamat was the only character that annoyed me in this one. I felt like his story was a bit boring and definitely wasn’t as exciting as in previous books. Don’t get me wrong it was pivotal, I just wanted to get back to the action with Tamas and Taniel in the war going on. Adamat’s part of the story just wasn’t as exciting until the end then it picked up pace became interesting as it tied in with the rest of the story.Ka-Poel, while not present for most of this book, had such a big role to play. I love her characterisation, she has so much personality and I think the way Taniel can communicate with her is adorable. It just shows how in sync they are.I would also like to add that the character Vlora redeemed herself a little for me in this one. I think that after the ending scene with her and another character I can forgive her for actions in the previous books and I can even understand her a little. I know that in the next series in this world she is the main character but I don’t like her enough to warrant reading that series. I like the finality of this series and the closure that it gives. I feel like reading another series in this world will undo the magic that was this book.Everything wrapped up quite nicely and it would be a shame to ruin that.Something that this series made me realise was that I actually quite enjoy military fiction. There was so much War and battle in this trilogy, all the planning and tactics was rather well done and very enjoyable for me to read. All the fighting and battles took my breath away. The author has a wonderful way of making you feel like you are in the thick of it. Sure there was lots of very gruesome scenes and plenty of gore. I’m not sure whether this is classed as ‘grimdark’ or just ‘dark’ fantasy. But even the brutality and horrors of the book were written beautifully. I also learned a whole lot about how armies work and logistics and such.The magic system that the author has created is what really kept me hooked. In this book the Knacked and the Powder Mages aren’t really the main focus. The Privileged are and I must say their magic is badass. It’s more of an elemental magic, with one hand the user can summon the elements with the finger that corresponds to that element, then with their other hand they can direct and control the element how they wish. So long as they have their gloves on.Well it’s a little more complicated than that but it’s fucking awesome and I want to be a Privileged okay? Especially if I can be friends with Bo. He stole the show again in this one. He is a badass and a complete and utter flirt, what’s not to love?Something I will admit. For the majority of this book it was a 4 star read. The last 100 pages are what bumped this up. 100 pages to go and I still had no idea how the author was going to resolve all the plots and save the day. It was a lot of wrapping up and resolution to be had but it was done well. It didn’t feel rushed, it felt well thought out and planned. When I look back on the trilogy as a whole, I can see the elements that have been present all the way through, just waiting for the ending for things to be revealed.I listened to the audiobooks for all the books in the trilogy and read either the paperback or the kindle version alongside. The narrator was excellent really helped bring out the gritty atmosphere. All of the male characters were gruff and burly and all distinguishable from each other, some with different accents. The voices for Tamas and Taniel was similar but it was easy to tell the differences, Taniel was a bit more cool and collected (when he wasn’t angry). Tamas’ was more rough and older and definitely had his military command. I’d recommend the audiobooks as they really helped add atmosphere and depth to the characters and world.I’m sad that this is over but very satisfied too. It’s hard to find a trilogy that doesn’t have a bad book, it’s hard to find a trilogy that keeps it pace and keeps you engaged throughout. This has got to be one of my favourite trilogies. The characters will have a place in my heart for a long time. As I mentioned earlier, I am not planning on reading the Vlora series. I want to leave the story here, and hopefully revisit it at some point in the future.Please, just read these books.