A new Fantasy series that is being compared to the venerated, though highly divisive,Wheel Of Timeseries? What what! Sign me up please! I actually hadn't even heard aboutThe Shadow Of What Was Lostuntil I saw it popping up on various feeds and getting pretty decent reviews here on Goodreads, and since my local book club was due for a Fantasy read, I made sure that this was the one we selected. We normally have a 2 week read cycle, but because this was over 700 pages, we decided to give ourselves a month of reading time before we discussed it.I finished it in less than a week...So yeah, I obviously enjoyed it. It's hard for me to really find time for a good solid read anymore, especially one as dense as this. And even having it on an e-reader still doesn't guarantee that I'll have enough time to truly "burn" through a book like I used to when I was younger. But somehow this one kept me firmly engaged, and I managed to find plenty of reading time. After trying my best to read outside of my traditional comfort zones for the first half of the year, it was nice to get back to a good, solid Fantasy tale. And what a tale this is! But, I guess the real question is: does the first entry in the Licanius Trilogy stand on the same pedestal as the peers it is being compared to, namely epics by Robert Jordan and Brandon Sanderson?My personal answer to that is no, not quite. It does, however, come very close. And as a debut novel it is pretty damn solid, and very well thought out. But I can't in good conscience say that it is "my new favorite Fantasy series" as is being touted by other outlets. To be fair, folks who enjoyed WoT or Sanderson's various Fantasy series absolutely will find much to love withThe Shadow Of What Was Lost. There's familiarity here, like slipping into well-worn slippers or a comfy t-shirt (which works both for AND against the story). The framework is such that you have a basic understanding of the whole, even if the rather numerous moving parts are slightly different than what you're used to.As befitting of a series with this much going on,The Shadow Of What Was Lostis a third person tale told from numerous viewpoints. This helps to provide a larger sense of scale, as the protagonists of the tale are generally not always in the same place, so we get to see events play out on a grand stage. And like I said before, much of it is familiar. We have the plucky, reluctant hero who has a power he shouldn't, his best friend who is harboring a rather large secret, a friend/love interest who has a much larger role to play than initially suspected, and an amnesiac cipher with his own strange abilities. That said, the characters themselves are interesting enough, and richly drawn enough, that they manage to remain compelling, and while the archetypes themselves aren't anything new, the way they are integrated into the tale keeps them unique. Well, almost...Ostensibly the "main" character, Davian is perhaps the one that suffers most from Fantasy deja-vu. We've seen this "chosen one" character before, and as such, of the four primary POV characters, he is probably the most familiar, which does tend to make his chapters less exciting. I liked him well enough, as he has some truly enjoyable "I can do what?!" moments as he discovers more about his abilities, and he had some genuine "grey area" moments that made him more than just a heroic "do gooder". While his heart is in the right place, I definitely sense that he's going to have some moments of conflict in the next two books. Still, he's a worthy and stalwart friend, and is a great surrogate for us readers as we, through him, learn more about the world he inhabits.Wirr, as the best friend, was actually more engaging for me. I liked his twist in the tale, and he was more of a realist than Davian. There is much "real world" weight on Wirr's shoulders, which ultimately made him more relatable. But for all the responsibility he was born into, he still has a roguish side that shines through sometimes. If Davian is the Rand of this tale, then Wirr would be Mat. My favorite part about Wirr though, and by extension Davian, is that their friendship never really wavered. Davian is struggling to understand the implications of all that is happening around him and his friends, while Wirr just wants to the right thing, even if that's not necessarily the most popular thing. But even if they have differing opinions, their friendship is always solid and dependable. Their early adventures are some of the most enjoyable passages of the whole book, and really helps cement their relationship.Caeden, as the amnesiac, is really best left alone for fear of spoilers. He had the least amount of page time of the main POC's, but certainly had as large a part to play as Davian. To be honest, I wasn't terribly invested in his struggle to regain his memories, as he was such a cipher that he wasn't terribly engaging. He has a few cool moments, but those get overshadowed by a lot of pages of "not knowing who I am or what I stand for" blandness. In fact, I had kinda written him off, but there's some shenanigans that happen near the end of the book that really impact his character, and his part to play in the ongoing drama. Nuff said there.By far my favorite character, and the one that also frustrated me due to lack of answers, was friend/love interest Asha. I think she's introduced in a way that tricks the reader into thinking they know how her character arc will go. And that was probably done deliberately. Because her part isn't something you see coming, which ultimately makes it that much more enjoyable. While Davian, Wirr, and Caeden have their moments of character growth and introspection, Asha truly has a definitive "arc" in this story, and is no longer the same person she was at the beginning of the tale. It's a believable progression, and makes her that much more compelling. However, there is a mystery around her character that doesn't get answered in this first book (that I noticed anyways) which was rather frustrating. In addition to a GREAT scene near the end of the book, Asha also gets some cool companions of her own to interact with that give the story that much more depth.Aside from the many POV characters, we get quite a supporting cast, which is where things get really interesting. Nearly half of the named people that our protagonists meet in this first book have their own agenda or role to play in the growing conflict, and their motivations aren't always clear. This is a source of some of the book's best drama, but also a lot of its frustrations as well. Since nearly everyone has their own secret motivations, and since those motivations don't always align with those of our heroes (or even the villains necessarily), it can get kind of confusing following all the move/counter-move subterfuge going on. Like one of the characters said in the recent Free Fire movie, "I forgot which side I'm on!". I felt that way several times throughout the book, as there was so much name dropping that I truly forgot who was who at times, including what side they were on (if they were even on an established side). Part of that might be debut novel inexperience, but I think an equal part of that is that there's just so many characters, and not necessarily enough time spent with them to help them stand out. But they are characters that you want to revisit, which keeps the enjoyment factor high.Another point of frustration is that we get a few side characters who get rather limited page time, but are more interesting than other characters who are around more. If these characters don't make appearances in the next two books, I'm going to be severely disappointed. Especially when it comes to Breshada and her named sword Whisper. You DON'T introduce a character like that, make her so badass and whatnot, only to have her never make a return. Come on Islington, I'm counting on you here...On the villain side, we have a range to choose from. There's the ultimate big bad, locked away in his sealed pris...errrr...behind a magical barrier. But the barrier is weakening, meaning his presence is seeping through, which does not bode well for our heroes. We also get varied villainy being performed by different factions that our protagonists face off against. Some of it is effective, some of it induces head scratching. And some were just plain "oh, ok, guess he's a bad guy too!" inclusions that came out of left field. If nothing else, our heroes certainly have to work for every little triumph, which does lend a sense of urgency and danger. Thankfully, the motivations of the villains are generally clearly defined and make sense, so we do get a good sense of why they are behaving as they are.So outside of characters, how does the book hold up? Honestly, mostly pretty well. The factions, politics, and religions of the world are generally detailed enough to make sense, though I never truly had enough detail to connect all the dots. I'm assuming more will be revealed in the next books, which is fine. I don't need EVERYTHING explained all at once. That said, it was hard for me to really get an idea of where things were in relation to each other. So yeah, a certain sense of scale is lacking. In WoT, Jordan made you feel the great distances involved, where here it's kind of nebulous. At least the reasoning behind the Gifted (aka Essence users) being persecuted is well explained. Still, using a device of great magic to subdue the magic users of the world seems...kinda silly. And kinda lazy.As for said magic, aka Essence, there's some nifty things that can be done with it, but I don't think the potential has really been tapped yet. The way it works is slightly vague, so I'm not entirely sure what can, and cannot, be done still. And there's another power outside of Essence that has even more potential. We do get some of that explained as well, but again, this book only scratches the surface. I have my suspicions that both of these will get more time to shine in the sequels. I truly hope so anyways. A good magic system can really help enhance a Fantasy novel, so here's to hoping that Essence and Kan (Khaaaaaaaaaaaaan!!!!!) get their due in books two and three.There were also a couple of inconsistencies that I hope get addressed going forward. There's some time travel elements in the book that seem to contradict themselves throughout the story, and I have a hard time with that. I'm assuming these will be cleared up as we progress...Sadly, for everything the book does right, it does an equal amount of things in a fashion that we are already used to. A mentor figure traveling with the heroes, with his/her own agenda, who knows more about the main character than said main character does about himself? Check. Evil quasi-sentient city that the heroes have no choice but to trek through, that ends up having a lasting impact on the story? Check. The majority of the fate changing/world altering heroes coming from the same location (school here, village in WoT)? Yep, you guessed it...check. So if you are looking for familiarity, you've come to the right book. And while familiarity can be a good thing, it also hindered this book a bit for me, as I had too many moments of "been there, done that". With any epic fantasy tale, there's going to be similarities, and I totally get that. However, I guess they were just TOO similar here for my liking.But it must be said that, quibbles aside, this is a very enjoyable read. And familiarity or no, to Mr. Islington's credit, there were a few minor twists and one MAJOR shocker near the end of the book that I certainly did not see coming. So kudos to him for taking the story in some truly unique directions as the book came to a close. While some of the initial mysteries were answered here, the book does a great job of establishing struggles and questions that need resolution in the sequel, while really setting the stage for the larger conflict that will connect all three books. I firmly expect book two to have a tighter narrative and a more focused progression, now that the exposition and stage setting has been accomplished. And now that he has some experience, I am sure that Mr. Islington will only grow as an author and storyteller. Was it perfect? No, but it was damn good. I will certainly be reading the sequel,An Echo Of Things To Come, when it comes out!