“History meant nothing, because the only continuity was human stupidity.”Where to even begin?From that magnificent ending? No, who starts with an ending?But in many ways,Toll the Hounds,eight book inMalazan Book of the Fallenseries is the beginning of an end. Interlude into a final bookDust of Dreams/Crippled God;book by which end all pieces are set and ready for a conclusion.Let's start with the necessary - but I promise very brief - what, where and who.We're back inDarujhistan,place where inevitable convergence is approaching. Convergence of characters, of destinies, past and future, old and new, friends and enemies, lovers, ascendants, gods, mules - all coming to a single crossroad.And that's not the only convergence in this book. Deep within the sword,ChaosandDarkare about to battle each other to extinction, possibly ending the world and all realms in it.The only force that is willing to oppose this imminent end is that which is bound and shackled to a wooden wagon, forces gathered through millennia, consisting of mutual dreaded enemies.Characters.Reading this book reaffirmed my opinion that all-powerful characters, such asAnomander Rake,hurts the overall quality of the story.Yes, you have read those lines properly. Bear with me.It's not that I hate having these types of characters as much is failing to see what other readers found so compelling in him and characters alike.I mean, I get it, he is all-powerful, veers into a dragon, have a badass sword, he is also profoundly mysterious and unfathomably tragic.And most of the time, that’s more than enough, because this is fantasy and something like this is presumable, right?But, at some point, this vast power, this larger than life part in the story, becomes a burden to a character. Because whenever he comes into a spotlight, readers expect"oooohh's"and"wwoooow's"from him. They expect to be awestruck.And that ultimately puts limitation on author himself, because there are expectations to be met and when author realizes he can't meet those expectations, like Erikson realized here*, they have none other choice than to put these type of characters on a shelf. To wait their opportunity to shine.*(Because would you believe it that Steven never intended for Anomander to have a big part in this series? Actually, Erikson himself was quite confused that Anomandaris was received so well by readers because, like myself, he wasn’t infatuated by him at all. Yeah, shocking, I know.But of course, because he writes for us, he gave us what we want. Well, what most of us want, in any case.)And if author doesn't have other compelling stories – or if he simply relies too much on a story of this magnificent character – we are bound to read endlessly:"No, it's not the time; no it's not the time; and no, it's still not the time."throughout much of the 1200 pages of a book. Like in this one here.Honestly, at some point I heardJaffarsaying:“Patience,Iago,patience.”If other characters have to wait this one character; if other stories have to wait this one story to progress further – than that, in my opinion, hurts the quality of the story.And this is exactly what happened here. Other stories suffered because of it; stories such asCutter/CrocusandChalice D’Arlewhich we could completely cut off, and except 80 pages of the book, we wouldn’t lose much at all.Add on thatRallick Nomand his cousinTorvald Nom.Add evenEnvyandSpite.I would even go so far to cut offMapoandGruntle’sstory.All these stories, which served as an underwhelming supplement while we’re waiting – well, we don’t know what exactly is that we’re waiting – all we know is that:“It’s almost the time.”,I would completely cut off, saving approximately 400 pages, without losing any thread whatsoever.“Perspective, you see? The world changes according to where you stand.”Which leads us to last 150/200 pages, which were breathless. Something we’re quite used to seeing in Steven’s books and something that doesn’t surprise us anymore.Now obviously I can’t talk in details about it, but I’ll mention this: the main reason for me why last 200 pages kept me on the edge of my seat is mainly because of the prequels – story and character I’m following from them, all throughout this series, and seeing revelations and seemingly conclusion to that character’s arc. In all of my previous reads I wasn’t as invested as in this one, with all the prequels, as well as side-novels of this world, backing me up.Just because of it, again, I’ll recommend chronological reading order for anyone that has nerves, time and overall desire to do so.“To face death is to stand alone.”– Preparation for character’s death. –I love the fact that Steven was considerate enough to groom us and prepare for what is to come; for this emotional barrage and sad departure from characters that we love.In the story we have a character who dies. With Steven Erikson that’s not even a spoiler, it’s something that we expect in each book, at every corner to jump right at us.But the way he had done it, through seemingly insignificant character and within a minor story in the book, is a masterful preparation for his readers for what is to come by the end."Sadness belonged. As rightful as joy, love, grief and fear. All conditions of being.Too often people mistook the sadness in others for self-pity, and in so doing revealed their own hardness of spirit, and more than a little malice."Focusing so much and in so many details on this minor story and this insignificant character, and to let us grieve alongside these character’s friends, feeling their pain, paying respect to their fallen comrade, going through all these stages, denial, anger, grief and finally acceptance, actually helped in accepting what is inevitably to come, on our feet, with grace.Brilliance is in small details.Symbolism and allegory."People don’t change to suit their god; they change their god to suit them."What do you do when god refuses to acknowledge you?Would you transform your faith in desperate need for answers? Would you pick an easier way to find whatever meaning you can?What then hides behind your prayer? When the purpose of the prayer becomes seeking of hope or a blessing, or the sense that something greater than yourself might acknowledge your helplessness – all of which in order to serve your wants and needs – does a prayer becomes a meaning of reciprocity?Is a prayer nothing more for you than a bargain?The large part of this book centers on the questions: at the very beginning of the faith, in the cradle itself, who decides what and how do we worship? What is the ‘proper’ way of worshiping a deity?How is a priesthood born? What are the rules and prohibitions?And most of all: who defines this moral filter from which we could divide justice from injustice?Focusing on telling a story how wicked and dangerous priests can become, these mortal messengers of god’s word, how from each next generation that same god’s word can be twisted into something unrecognizable and made to suit selfish needs to whomever currently occupies the highest seat in this newly formed church – especially if when bombarded with questions this deity refuses to answer – we see how easy is for mortal opportunistic desires to become a dogma.Prose.I have seen many complaints about occasional shifting of structural narrative, and I have to say that I do not understand two things.First: why had Erikson decided to introduce this late in the series, practically at the beginning of the end, this change? Was it necessary; to whom actually can we prescribe this change in telling the story - this almost breaking of the fourth wall – and pinching the reader on his nose while doing so?If we prescribe it toKruppe– then why now? We had this character for four books and he never ventured into something similar in previous installments.But if we somehow manage to prescribe this to newly introduced character, this bard:Fisherman– then I suppose we can understand shifting.But I’m not sure that we can, so overall I’m confused and don’t understand this move Steven decided to make.Second thing that I don’t understand is why people are complaining so much about it? This shift in narrative structure in each chapter is perhaps four paragraphs long. Which means half a page in fifty pages long chapters per average. Which again, in twenty three chapters long book is merely above eleven pages.Now, one may try to build an argument around this and say how ten pages in a thousand pages long book actually managed to disturb or even ruin someone’s experience – but, to be honest, I wouldn’t call that a valid argument. I would actually name that something else.3.33/5Quite generous rating, if you ask me.Book is not only its ending, no matter how breathtaking that ending is.Kharkanas TrilogyForge of DarknessFall of LightPath to Ascendancy seriesDancer's LamentDeadhouse LandingMalazan Empire seriesNight Of KnivesReturn of the Crimson GuardStonewielderMalazan Book of the Fallen seriesGardens of the MoonDeadhouse GatesMemories of IceMidnight TidesHouse of ChainsThe BonehuntersReaper's GaleUltimate Malazan Chronological Reading Order