Initial ThoughtsOh. My. God. This book has destroyed me - I am in a heap of NOPE right now. I LOVE THIS BOOK SO MUCH. I will definitely be continuing the series and also buying every single book written by Brooks. Right now I just can't even begin to describe how much that punished my heart. I suggest not getting attached to characters because the amount of death in this is terrifying.----------------------------------------Wards of FaerieThis book was so much fun to read. For some reason it distinctly reminded me of The Hobbit - I think perhaps because of the serious adventure vibes I got from reading it. It’s a crazy whirlwind of adventure in a beautifully fantastical world that has you donning your pirate costume and swish and flicking your wand. I thoroughly enjoyed everything this book had to offer and it certainly became something that I looked forward to going back to at the end of the day.What HappensWards of Faerieis the first book in a related series to Brooks’ other (and very popular) series, The Shannara Chronicles. I’ve seen some other people say they struggled with this one not having read the other series - but I got through just fine. However, I cannot even express how much I want to read The Shannara Chronicles now. This is fantasyto the core. It’s about Aphenglow (Aphen for short) who’s a druid and determined to discover the missing elf stones. In this world there are humans, elves, gnomes (omg, I love gnomes, why are there not more gnomes in books??), goblins, ghost things, druids, and many other cool magical beings. WHICH IS HEAVEN. Although, sadly, the book could have done with a few more dragons, *pointedly looks at book two*.This hunt for the elf stones is sparked from a small hint that Aphen finds in an old diary. Although it’s never going to be an easy journey. No-one seems to like the druids (and the reasons for this were somewhat elusive) so their plight to save magic but be the ones to then keep the elf stones raises most eyebrows. The world becomes a very dangerous place for the likes of Aphen to be in - not only is she a druid, but she’s an elf (and these two things are generally a no-no)andshe’s within the royal family. So she has a pretty big lot going for her. She has to watch her back, as well, because there’s a nefarious band of people who want her removed - which means we get plenty of really cool fighting scenes.There are also flying ships. Just thought you should know.The Weirdly Named CharactersThere were two things that I about the array of really quite awesome characters:1. I like these characters a lot. I wonder how many Brooks will kill. And;2. I have no idea how to pronounce any of their names.I won’t tell you the scale of death in the book but it’s a fantasy novel with multitudes of characters. I wouldn’t be counting your chickens. There being so many characters also meant there were plenty of personalities to absolutely adore.Me, realising I'd become attached to a character who was probably going to die.The TwinsMy favourite(s) had to be the twins. The two boys, Redden and Railing (I told you the names were weird) were such an entertaining duo and their obsession with the ship/hovercraft thing was very Star Wars-esque. I loved how much they reminded me of Fred and George Weasley, too. They were almost a bit of light relief to the book (but if I’m being honest everything is relatively serious) and I’m really curious to see what happens to them in the next book. Let’s just say they’re left in a pretty interesting situation.Aphenglow and BombaxI did like Aphen but she wasn’t my favourite character. She’s also by no means a stand out heroine of all the fantasy books I’ve read. She was quite a detached character who made for a good protagonist but ultimately was a little tricky to relate too. Especially the whole romance thing which was far too pragmatic for me to be able to ship anything. I think Bombax (her ‘partner’) could have done with a bit more time and focus on his story. He’s not there for a lot of the book and he does play an important role but I would’ve liked to have seen more of his character.ArlingfantApart from having a ridiculously not-okay name, Arling was actually a pretty cool character. I enjoyed the sister relationship between her and Aphen but again, everything was just a fraction too distant for me. Maybe this is just how Brooks writes his characters - so much energy is put into creating a stunning world that’ll blow your mind, leaving a couple of potholes in the road when it comes to relationships between characters. But then . . .CymrianOhhh boy, I loved Cymrian. He is such a smoking hot and capable character. He IS going on a list of fictional-men-to-look-out-for, or maybe, fictional-characters-to-pull-out-of-book. He's a personal body guard for Aphen (although she's determined that she doesn't need him) so of course he heroically saves her life several times throughout the book. I loved him so much, it hurts how much I love him. He better damn make a move with Aphen in book two BECAUSE IT’S SO OBVIOUS THAT HE HAS FEELINGS FOR YOU. *howls* Aphen is such a bumblehead. Maybe it’s not Brooks at all. Maybe Aphen is just far too focussed on her work and so is missing out on all the fun.Farshaun and StoonThese two, although not related to each other in the book, were my favourite sidekick characters. Farshaun is such a wizened old thing and he is a great influence on the twins, in my opinion. I feel like he’s going to do something very awesome very soon. But we will see. Stoon is a masterfully wicked villain. He’s a quiet assassin and you never know who’s side he’s on. I know I shouldn’t like him, but I so totally do. I can’t WAIT to see what he does in the next book!Mirai and OrianthaFinally, I have to mention this two bundles of curiosities. Mirai being the twins’ best friend and the hinge to one of the greatest love triangle ever to probably happen very soon. I can’t wait for that one. I really want to know more about her character - why is she so darn good at everything? And Oriantha is sooo cool. I won’t say anything more about her because of spoilers but she’s definitely one to look out for.What I AdoredThere was obviously a lot that I loved about this book. I loved the story, the characters were great, and I loved the magic and intrigue. One of my favourite things though was the actual setting. Brooks creates this world so wonderfully well it’s crazy - I have never used a map in a book more than I did whilst reading this one. I was intensely tracking the movements of all the characters and trying to work out where they’d all meet up and why they were going where they were.I love the promise of adventure that comes with this book too. I thought it was so sneaky how Brooks ends the book because it’s not packaged with a ribbon, let me tell you that. It’s almost as if he’s decided to put the pen down and take a break - and now us readers have to wait with baited breath for the story to continue. The story simple seize up where they’re at and some of the cliff hangers are BRUTAL. The images painted in my mind from this book are amazing and it makes me want to whip out some paint brushes to draw up the scenery. This is literally the perfect fantasy adventure story.Where We Leave OffI absolutely had to write down where all the characters are at at the end of this book - otherwise I’ll stand no chance of remembering by the time I get around to reading the next book. So here we go:Aphenglow: Escaped from Paranor with company and will be continuing her search for the other Druids.Arlingfant: Escaped from Paranor with company and remaining home as part of the Chosen.Cymrian: Probably in love with Aphen and going to continue protecting her for the rest of the journey.Bombax: Helped rescue the others in the escape from Paranor but died on the ship from injuries. Is buried in the special Elven graveyard.Ard Rhys: In the Forbidden and realised predicament after the dragon attack and lack of way out.Railing: Out of action because of a doubly broken leg - will supposedly be flown out of the wastelands with Mirai comes.Redden: Stuck in the Forbidden with the surviving company.Farshaun: Remains with Railing and will supposedly be flown out to safety by Mirai.The Speakman: Gone half crazy after attack of deformed spider monsters and now useless to further guide. Will supposedly be flown out to safety by Mirai.Oriantha: Disappeared on the back of the dragon - unsure if still alive.Pleysia: Dying from an illness and stuck in the Forbidden.Garroneck: Died in the Forbidden.Drust: Killed by Stoon after several failed attempts to take over Paranor.Stoon: Outside of Paranor having assassinated Drust - supposedly going to gain something from that.King: Still on throne, supposedly, but possibly dying and his nephew is an unworthy heir.Mirai: Remained on ship of the Ard Rhys when others went exploring - is the ‘way out’ for those stuck and injured. Not sure if anything of significance has happened to her whilst away.SummaryThis book is just one big, fat yes from me. I loved every inch of it and I seriously cannot wait to continue the journey and encounter even more awesome things. If you’ve read A Game of Thrones and enjoyed it, they I will hesitantly slide this across the table to you because I think you’ll enjoy this one too. Otherwise, this is a great read for all fantasy dwellers and I highly recommend it!Happy reading!