2 ⭐️ Interesting fantasy world but predictable storyline, incredibly sexy moments but sometimes cringyTrigger Warning (18+):abuse, grooming, molestation (mentioned), violence, death of character (side)Summary:"You're going to break me""No, Little One. I'm going to love you. Until you forget what it is to hurt and then long after that. Until the scars you wear like armor have faded from memory, and only we remain."For nearly 400 years, the Veil has protected humans from the Fae of Alfheimr. Until one day, it shatters, unleashing fae upon the world again.Estrella spent her entire life tending to Lord Byron's gardens in Mistfell during the day and receiving private lessons from him and his tutors at night. But once the barrier between the two realms is broken, Estrella's life is forever changed. Marked as a mate to one of the fae, she must flee to save herself from being hunted down by the Mist Guard, protectors of the human realm, as well as the Wild Hunt, a group of fae from the Shadow Court.Before either can capture her, another fae marked named Caelum saves her, and together they seek protection with the Resistance. But their alliance quickly turns into a passionate romance that may consume them both.*This story ends on a massive cliffhangerMy Thoughts:If you're a fan of JLA's From Blood and Ash and enjoy dagger to the throat meetings, fated mates, forced proximity, 'touch her and die', 'who hurt you', possessive alphaholes, exhibitionism, praise k!nks, and breeding k!nk, you may like this.What I liked:The world-building.This is an interesting world full of Primordials, Gods, Fae, witches, and humans. By the end of book one, we have some background about the history before the Veil, but most of it is told from the human's perspective, so I'm curious to learn about it acording to the Fae. I'm also excited to see what life in the fae realm looks like!The banter was great at times.Estrella is feisty and Caelum is very persistent. All he wants to do is protect her but she's very untrusting, so whenever he pushes, she pulls. But goodness does Caelum say a lot of great things. For example:"If this is what your hate feels like, then I can't wait to feel your love."Caelum calling Estrella 'My Star' was so sweet.This is the cutest nickname, especially since Estrella means star in Spanish. But he also calls her, 'Little One' a lot which I didn't like so much because it reminded me of Marvel's Thanos calling Gamora 'Little One'. lolThe sex scenes were intense and steamy.Literally steamy because most of them happen in hot springs. This story is definitely 18+ with lots of sexual tension and graphic sex scenes.What I didn't like:Storyline is extremely predictable.There wasn't a single plot twist that surprised me. It felt like the author was spoon-feeding the reader to the point where it was obvious where the story was headed. I felt like I was being told more than I was being shown. However, it’s still an enjoyable ride.Some of the words and phrases used were too modern or relative to our world.For example: 'ew', 'gross', and 'you're a d!ck'. Whenever used, I was taken out of the fantasy story.Other words and phrases used throughout the story were cringy, especially sexual ones. 🙈For example:- "It was safe to say, my vag!na was unfortunately off-limits."- "I like my intestines in my stomach and not shoved into my lungs. You just keep that thing away from me."- "He tore another woman in two with his monumental c0ck?"- "I'm not above punching you in the d!ck."- "I don't even mind that your p*ssy is probably still filled with his c*m from when he made you scream this morning. It feels better that way." (This one in particular, is supposed to gross you the f*ck out but it was too much).- "Show me my f*cking c*nt. Show them what they will never have."- "I'll fill you with so much of my c*m that they can smell it on you tomorrow and remember exactly who you belong to.- "I want you to come. I want to clench that tight little p*ssy around my c0ck and milk the c*m from my balls until it's dripping down your thighs."- References to Estrella's vag!na after sex as a "battered p*ssy" or "poor p*ssy"Jensen trying to force Estrella to be a lady of the night did nothing to further the story.I hate useless plot points. And this was obviously done to piss off Caelum and have him show everyone in the Resistance that Estrella is his...which he does when he literally f*cks her in the communal hot springs baths. It just felt cheap.The exhibition was fine but didn't quite align with Caelum's character.He is so protective of Estrella and didn't want anyone to touch or think of her sexually, but he's suddenly okay with the entire Resistance watching him claim her? I feel like this was only added to shock the reader instead of actually providing any real value towards the romance or story.Overall, I was intrigued by the storyline and worldbuilding, however, the characters and romance fell short for me. Regardless, I am curious as to what happens next, so I may read the next book.Thank you Harper L. Woods for providing an eARC in exchange for an honest review! As always, all opinions are my own.