This review can also be found athttps://carolesrandomlife.com/There are very few books that I will drop everything to read. This is one of those books. I downloaded this book as soon as it became available and spent as much time reading it as possible. I seem to be reading slower these days so I downloaded the audiobook when it was released a week later even though I had reached the 80% mark in the book simply because I couldn’t wait to see how it ended. I was a fantastic reading experience from beginning to end.The characters in this series come alive on the page. I think that Sarah Lyons Fleming does an amazing job of creating characters that you can’t help but love, making it very easy to become invested in the story’s outcome. This series is told from 4 unique points of view. Rose loves to take care of everyone, especially her father and 2 young adult children. She tends to worry simply because she cares so much. Tom is Rose’s boyfriend and Clara’s father. He is incredibly competent and tends to be a steady presence in the story. Clara is Tom’s daughter and the girlfriend of Rose’s oldest child. We get to see a bit more about how the young adults in the story deal with a world turned upside down. Craig is Rose’s childhood friend. He has stepped up as a leader in the group and is someone that Rose and everyone else can count on. These four characters tell the story but it is easy to fall in love with the whole group and I worried about them with each challenge they faced.The group seems to be in a bit of a better start than they were in the past. They have a solid group working together, plenty of supplies, and a location that meets their needs. Unfortunately, this is a world full of danger. They must constantly work to keep their food supply up and stay on guard against the zombies that now roam the world. On top of that, they know that the threat of wildfire is a real one. And this is a world without a team of firefighters ready to act. This story took my heart and broke it at times. I have to wonder just how much these characters can face.I listened to a portion of this book and thought the narrators did a great job with the story. Each point of view was voiced by a different narrator which made it very easy for the listener to know when the perspective changed. I thought that their voices were very pleasant and complimented each other’s nicely. They added just the right amount of emotion to their reading which added to my enjoyment of the story. I plan to tackle the full audiobook when I pick this book up again for an eventual re-read.I would highly recommend this series to others. This is the fourth book in a series that really should be read in order so I wouldn’t start with this book. The first book World Departed would be a much better place to start. I can’t wait to read the next (and possibly final) book in this much-loved series.