i was certain i was only going to read the silver eyes trilogy because it included a lot of classic characters (henry emily you deserve better), but i had found this book at my local library and wanted to give it a chance. i kinda shitted on the fazbear frights and tales from the pizzaplex books because they seemed so random and would just make the lore more confusing than it already is.i was right, but the stories aren’t necessarily bad (just kinda corny at times).recently scott confirmed that these books are canon to the game universe. with what we know about the paranormal in the games, i suppose these stories kind of make sense. however, i don’t enjoy the sci-fi aspect that was included in recent years.our first story, B7-2, was honestly the best out of the three. for me, it was very engaging and you actually feel a lot of sympathy for the main character, billy. this story was in a lot of hot water because people believed it was about detransitioning, but it’s absolutely not. it’s just about a lonely guy who became so infatuated with technology and robotics (doesn’t say if he was engulfed in the problematic history of fazbear entertainment) that he found a (very unprofessional and illegal) doctor at the psych ward whom could turn him into a robot. the writing is extremely well done and descriptive, and the ending of the story actually took me by surprise!!alone together, the second story, was just ok to me. the sudden, dark “flashbacks” of the pizzaplex animatronics made absolutely no sense to me. i don’t have much to say about this one because it really wasn’t that interesting or surprising to me. maybe other readers will be taken by surprise, but i wasn’t.the final story, dittophobia, combines fnaf 4 and sister location. when this first came out, everyone was all over the place because it conflicted with the lore of fnaf 4. personally, i already believed that the nightmare animatronics weren’t real, and that crying child was just having night terrors because of his already existing fear of the fredbear’s family diner crew (as well as michael’s teasing and pranks, which made it worse). this story introduces rory, a boy who had just turned 7 and also experienced the animatronic nightmares. this is NOT the same child from the game, however the house is the one from fnaf 4. i want this to be spoiler free, so i can’t go into anymore detail, but this story is very conflicting. i think it was good, but i can’t see how this is connected to the game lore.this was my first tales from the pizzaplex book, so the mimic epilogue started at an awkward point for me. am i tired of these stories about kids sneaking into an abandoned freddy fazbear’s location? absolutely. it’s overdone at this point, but i understand they need to flesh out the mimic since he was featured in the ruin dlc. i have nothing else to really say about this because i don’t know the full story.