I am absolutely baffled by the amount of people praising this book.The second page of this book tells me that Wendig has written another novel, a novella, a collection of short stories and four books on writing. One of the latter is called500 Ways to be a Better Writer. So I naively assumed the author would have some idea about how to write a readable book.This book had a lot of potential; I love the concept, I love the theme of fighting fate and it promised some dark humour. It was a complete let down and I only finished it by accidentally arriving somewhere an hour early and having absolutely nothing to do but to read this terrible book.So, let's crack on:The novel opens will an epileptic having a seizure and choking on their tongue. Chuck Wendig cannot use Google it seems, as a thirty second search containing only the words "tongue" and "choke" brought up some websites that proved that you cannot actually choke on your tongue. I am surprised his editor didn't point this out, as I thought it was common knowledge that choking on one's tongue is an urban legend. So, it wasn't off to a good start.The books is written in present tense, which I don't like. Wendig has not met a simile he didn't cram into the pages, often two at once. He repeats bits of description and words, and he has this awful habit of saying something and then saying it again. Reiterating. Rephrasing. Restating. Repeating. Echoing. Replaying. And that brings me to the sentence fragments - in small doses they are powerful and can really add impact to something. But there they litter the pages, like some sort of bomb went off in the prose and destroyed all the complete sentences.I grew tired of all the gritty language and purposefully grim prose. In small amounts it adds atmosphere and credibility and so much more. Here it's just ... there. Nothing's yellow, it's always "piss-yellow" nor is it a layer of grey clouds it's a "a bright greasy layer of gray", which doesn't even make all that much sense. It's like a bad film where the background's black from the night, everyone's wearing black and all the props are black - you have to squint to see what's going on. What I'm saying is, there's so much "gritty" darkness in the novel that there's no contrast; it's just one bit book-sized slab of unrelenting blackness.To say the plot is spread thin would be a bit of an understatement. The novel is padded out with pointless interludes and boring Symbolic Dreams that dragged on and on. I think it is done to disguise how actually straightforward and simple the plot is; let's just say the ending isn't hard to suss out.Miriam Black, our protagonist, is a terrible character. The plot just happens to her; she doesn't make choices or do anything proactive until the very end. She's angsty, angry and to call her one-dimensional is an insult to dimensions. It is also incredibly obvious from the first page that she is being written by a man. I can't exactly put my finger on it, but she reads like a man's fetishized view of what a strong but damaged woman should be. There's no understanding or even attempt at understanding the key differences between the experience of men and women.She's a wildly inconsistent character. At times I didn't know how she'd react because she honestly doesn't seem to have a set character. She does whatever the story requires her to do, characterization be damned. Her bag gets turned out at one point and she's carrying two romance novels, but nothing in her character suggests she would enjoy reading those (to be honest, she just seems to enjoy being miserable, given she never even half-heartedly attempts to strive for anything even slightly better). It felt like Wendig wrote them there because he thinks that's what women like.At another point the narrative says something along the line of "Miriam didn't know the phrase 'Eurotrash', but it's what she'd have called Ingersoll" and about a hundred pages later she called Ingersoll "Eurotrash" to his face. Well done there, Wendig.I have been informed that I am attributing this to the wrong character, and I unreservedly apologize to anyone I may have misled. I also would like to apologize to Mr. Wendig - the book is .0001% less bad that my original review states it is. Thank you for the correction, EmilyAs for the other characters, they were equally one dimensional. Even worse, they all had the exact same voice as Miriam, using the same words and phrases. The villains didn't really seem to have much of a reason for their evilness, killing people willy-nilly for nothing more than looking at them. They're flat and boring. Not to spoil, but one of them apparently wanted out or something, but they didn't really seem like it at all in the bits of the novel leading up to it.The novel was also chock-full of ableism, sexism and homophobia, most of which comes directly from the protagonist's mouth. It made me hate her from the start and it left a terrible taste in my mouth. Miriam does not meet a woman she doesn't immediately deride for whatever reason crosses her mind. I'm sure people will argue that she does it to the men too, but she doesn't in the same way. Louis is treated as a saint for no real reason. Even comparing how the novel treats Harriet and Frankie, you can see a massive difference. Ashley is also a rapist - Miriam tells him to stop/take his hands out of her pants and he doesn't. Disgustingly, the narrative supports him and Miriam says something about how she didn't really want him to stop. Regardless, she verbally withdrew consent and he continued.In summary, I honestly don't see how people liked this awful book. I didn't set out to hate this book; I wanted to love it, but it was just bad in so many varied ways. It's a real shame. Everything I've seen or heard about Mr. Wendig has shown him to a genuinely nice and interesting bloke, and it's very disappointing this doesn't extend to his work. The only real redeeming feature of this novel is that it introduced me to the work of Joey HiFi who is responsible for the wonderful cover.