We all hate it when our favorite series or trilogy comes to an end, but I'm sure that we hate it even more when the last book didn't live up to one's expectations.I had very high hopes for this because I really liked the first two books. I even rated the first one a 5 star rating. I thought that after reading this I might reread the trilogy again in the future, but I didn't like this book that much. It was cliche, and the characters weren't as good as they were before. It was a huge slap to the face that the ending ruined the whole series. Predictable and unsatisfactory at best.The characters themselves weren't as they were before. Despite the fact that I've read the second book more than a year ago, I still remember most of what happened to them, and also what I liked about them. In this novel everyone was dull and a bit stupid. Everything didn't make sense, and it felt a bit like the two authors didn't write this.Let me add in that the there was minimal action in this third novel. That means the useless ramblings were more prominent. This reason probably contributed to my disliking of the characters. They all just kept complaining about a lot of shit. The action didn't happen till around 80% of the novel. That's a huge amount of useless shit going on.It took me 10 days to read this. Honestly my busy schedule should be the one to blame, but this was too short to reach 10 days, even with my busy schedule. I wasn't turning the pages because i was really enjoying myself, but rather to get things over with. At 50% I knew I wasn't going to like this very much, so I had to push myself to finish it and move on.I read the first two novels way too long ago, and it was a time wherein I still enjoyed Dan Brown, Rollins, and the likes. It could be a huge possibility that I outgrown the genre itself. This book made me feel like I was reading Dan Brown, and not Rollins. Heavy on the cliche, predictable and stupid ending? I'm sick of reading the same thing. If i remember correctly though, the first two novels didn't possess these awful traits. I liked them because both were original and the writing was good. Could it be that Cantrell wrote this, or vice versa?2.5/5 stars. I rounded up out of respect of the first two books. The whole series itself probably deserves a 4 or a 3.5, but this novel alone was awful. Bad writing, predictable plot, and dull characters. I might still reread the trilogy in the future, and hopefully by then I'd have a better reading experience of this novel. I'm still highly recommending the whole series, but watch out for this particular novel.