This was incredibly boring. It felt very 'short scary episode' for a like an adult, modern version of tales from the crypt where ever episode is a short story. Except unfortunately you would spend maybe 7 to 9 hours getting through this book instead of the 30-45 minutes watching a episode. This book was entirely too simple and straightforward to be able to stretch it long enough for a movie unless is a straight to TV short movie.This was painfully simple. I really wished it would expand a bit more on just about everything. Have some more lead up with the plot with some world building would have been nice too. There is character building but it definitely didn't knock me out of my socks, it was very surface level and just enough to try and get you to maybe care about some of the essentials with the plot. The character building is just really rushed through though and it was very difficult to get attached to anything.Honestly this book was a mess and felt like it was probably intended for some instant gratification or a junk food read because it does jump into the action and conflict immediately at the start and just doesn't stop with that fast paced approach.Ive read plenty of junk food reads though and at minimum those at least tried to at first hook you in initially to get you to have fun with the junk food action. This book just didn't really pull any of that off and relied a lot on standard werewolf lore that is already represented in the media to save time on having to do any build up so it could jump right into the action. This approach would have been fine but the skimping in so many details made this feel so painfully generic and rushed.I just wanted to know more leading up to the first action scene, i didn't get that, so why by the 2nd action scene do I feel like I'm just not ever going to get any fun world building moments or even a exposition to help get attached to what's going on? It all felt so mindlessly violent. Like the violence on its own might be able to distract from the lack of a detailed world, realized characters or a well thought out plot. I felt so brain dead getting through this book just sorta along for the ride to see what other action scene it wanted to try and pull off.This was so unsatisfying and majorly needed to be longer at the start of the book, which is rare to say. Usually wanting a book to be longer is for when you're finishing up a book and wanted to know more of the plot after so much building. This just needed world building, character building, plot building, everything really before it got so action/conflict heavy.The writing style was nice at least. It had vivid explanations of the many action scenes which made it easy to visualize what was going on. I could feel the professionalism with the writing style on being able to pull that off because it was so fluid and descriptive. That is probably the only good thing I have to say about this book though. It's overwhelmingly bad.