Ugh.Ugh.UGHHHHH!This one is really tough to review for me because I noticed a definitive theme in the first two stories, and that was egotistical, toxic and mentally abusive men. It was borderline uncomfortable and upsetting to me reading the first two thirds of this book. Scott Cawthon must have been in some kind ofmoodwhen writing this book because the male protagonists that were presented to readers were miserable and vile people if I'm being quite honest. But along with my two new least favorite stories in this entire franchise comes only my second ever five star rating for a story in this series.So yes, this book was extremely difficult to rate, but let's break it down per story.Bunny Call:1 star"How could he have signed up his family for such a cruel prank? It was probably going to traumatize [his kids] for the rest of their lives. What had he been thinking?"Bob, his wife Wanda and their three kids take a vacation to a summer camp to have a weekend full of fun activities and family bonding, but Bob has other ideas. Feeling spiteful and resentful towards his family, Bob arranges a Bunny Call, a service the campsite offers to wake children up in the early morning hours with a man in a Ralpho costume, a giant fuzzy rabbit. As the first day full of activities carries on all Bob has to look forward to is the Bunny Call and scaring his family, however, taking a step back and getting a new perspective on his family demands a change of heart and suddenly the Bunny Call seems like a horrible, nasty idea. But you can't stop something that has already begun.Bunny Call was a major let down to me. Bob is a dick, a horrible father and husband and honestly just a mean and vindictive person. Readers having to be inside Bob's mind and hear about how he views his family physically made my heart ache and I quite honestly just hated every word of it. Ralpho was not scary or threatening in any way and the way the story played out seemed incredibly strange and a bit of a scattered mess. The literal only good part of this story was the last line, it sent a little shiver down my spine and I actually audibly let out one single laugh of disbelief in the middle of the crowded library where I was sitting, but besides that? No. No more toxic men please, Scott! Thanks!In The Flesh:1 star"The rabbit licked the blood from the knife's blade and laughed, its shoulders shaking. But it didn't feel like the rabbit was just laughing at Matt's mortally wounded avatar. It felt like the rabbit was laughing at Matt himself."Matt is living his dream job as a video game developer on the new Five Nights at Freddy's VR horror game, but not is all as it seems in the world he has created. The concept of the new game has players trying to find their way out of a maze while being hunted by the animatronic rabbit Springtrap, but as Matt is beta testing his own creation, his anger is spiraling out of control as Springtrap continuously beats him at his own game. Feeling personally slighted, Matt decides to mess with the character and its code, but it isn't long before he realizes that was a terrible, horrible mistake.MORE. MEN. WITH. TOXIC. ANGER. ISSUES. WHY?!I literally hated Matt as a character, and I actually can't comprehend how some people can read this story and don't see a problem with it? Matt fat shames women, tells them to their face that they're ugly, yells and screams at his friends and co-workers and diminishes anybody who doesn't agree with him. I mean a literal line from this story is,"Matt wasn't going to sit there and take this abuse from yet another delusional women"when a female he's on a date with tell him how she's uncomfortable...yeah f*ck that. But besides all ofthathot mess, this story was also weird. Like really weird. And not in a normal Scott-Cawthon-to-be-expected kind of weird. Firstly, I didn't enjoy the sort of fourth wall break into the franchise thing that was going on but then like secondly, is anybody going to talk about the fact thatthis guy literally just got mpregged and gave birth to a animatronic bunny who calls him daddyor what.......??? Ahem yeah....let's just move on from this one.The Man in Room 1280:5 stars"Lying there was the man Arthur had come to see. Arthur stopped breathing. This patient could not be called a prize...except perhaps in hell."Father Blythe has been called to the hospice wing in Heracles Hospital to visit a man who he believes is preparing to die, but when he arrives he soon realizes that the situation is quite the opposite. The man in room 1280 should be dead ten times over, but surprisingly, he isn't. His body is charred beyond recognition, his eye sockets vacant and his mouth empty of teeth, his organs and veins visible through his nearly non-existent skin. Something evil lurks inside this man that is keeping him alive, but he has one last wish for Father Blythe before he can finally let go.This! This is why this book was so hard for me to rate! The Man in Room 1280 was the light at the end of the tunnel compared to the two prior stories, I was beginning to write off this entire edition as trash after two total flops in a row but then like a phoenix rising out of the ashes came my first five star rating on a Fazbear Frights story since Count the Ways in the first book. I've been holding onto my five stars for stories that compare to how Count the Ways made me feel and how it truly haunted me and this one is definitely deserving. The Man in Room 1280 is unlike any story Scott has given us so far and I loved everything about it. We are in a new type of setting and in completely uncharted territory of horror. This story had almost no connection to the FNaF lore for maybe the first half of it and I almost forgot I was reading a short story aimed towards a younger audience. This tale was captivating and creepy and downrightdisgustingand I loved every moment of it.And now we come to the black pages that contain the backbone of this series, the Stitchwraith. One small snippet at a time this story is getting deeper and darker and I'm anxious to finally find out (in whatever weird Scott Cawthon-type way we'll get) this creature's full history revealed.