Reading this novel is pretty much a no brainer if you have read Brian Keene'sThe Risingand J.F Gonzalez'sClickers. I will admit this book is a lot of fun carnage, especially when the Clickers end up fighting against the zombies from The Rising. There are so many epic moments in this book, it is a really big reward for the fans who have read all of the Clickers and Rising novels. However I wouldn't go as far as to say this book isn't to be taken seriously for the dedicated Brian Keene fans. A lot of his mythology is mentioned here, especially in regards to the Black Lodge, The Labyrinth, and the intentions of The Thirteen. If you have been following Brian's mythology, there is some huge payoffs here. My favorite was the brief glimpse at theField Guide To The Thirteen.Zombie crabs? Crab zombies? Yes Please!!In a lot of ways this is a good send off to the popular Rising and Clickers series. It was great to see many of these characters again. Seeing Jim and Rick together in one book has a epic feel, so I was happy to see them co-existing in the same universe. My only complaint was the absence of Frankie and Reverend Thomas Martin. However with the inclusion of Levi and The Black Lodge, they more then make up for the absence of my favorite characters. (And we'll see Frankie again in the upcoming Labyrinth book calledThe Sevenwhich is really cool.)Again I would like to emphasize that the enjoyment of this book does depend on whether you have read novels byBrian KeeneandJ.F. Gonzalez. In lots of ways this book is a tribute to long time fans of theLabyrinth sagaand the built up mythology of both of these authors. You will see name drops of characters fromDark Hollowand a brief mentioning of events fromPrimitive. These treats and Easter eggs will go unappreciated if you aren't at least a little familiar with the mythology of these authors. So while I did love this book tremendously, I can't say I would recommend it to readers who have never read a Brian Keene book before. Dedicated fans will be rewarded over and over again though, since a large cast is basically included to showcase various characters who have appeared in past Brian Keene and J.F. Gonzalez works.I read this book series with a group of really close friends. I would like to thank Mehmet and the others for reading the entire Clickers series with me! I had a lot of fun! I would of read it alone but reading it with fellow Brian Keene fans really enhanced my enjoyment level . I would also like to give my thanks toBrian Keenefor advertising this buddy read for me. If it wasn't for him I wouldn't of made some new friends. I would also like to express my sadness for the passing ofJ.F. Gonzalez. I have become a big fan of Gonzalez's work and I plan on reading the rest of his books.My prayers are with the Gonzalez family and his other loved ones.This book and the entire Clickers series gets a perfectfive out of five starsfrom this fan. Thank you for cheering me up and entertaining me this autumn season.Link:https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...