When I first started reading this series, the books averaged between 300-350 pages in paperback. This latest entry is 708 pages in hardcover, and it took me FOREVER to get through it, because the page difference is not made up of more plot. Instead, it has never been more clear that LKH is mining her own humdrum life of polyamory, therapy about polyamory, and working out for filler material to surround increasingly meager and thin “plots,” and dressing it up in allegedly-sexy vampire and lycanthrope clothing. If anything could be said in favor of this drab, hodgepodge, train-of-thought masquerading as a novel, it would be that LKH has really done her part to make the polyamorous community seem less threatening and titillating to those in monogamous relationships. Nothing, NOTHING, could sound more boring and tedious and less tempting than polyamory as described by LKH, even if it does involves the most physically perfect specimens ever known on earth.Here’s the basic plot we start out with:Anita: Some weird shit is happening to people I know.Some boytoy: You ate Marmee Noir.Anita: Yeah.Boytoy: Marmee Noir had the power to make weird shit happen.Anita: I’m with you.Boytoy: Specifically, the exact things that are now happening around you.Anita: Go on.Boytoy: Someone who had absorbed Marmee Noir’s powers by, for example, eating her, would then have the power to make this weird shit happen, even if they didn’t realize they were doing it.Anita: I have no idea what you are saying or why you think it is relevant to mention this now. I really wish someone could figure out what could possibly be causing this weird shit to happen around me.SPOILER ALERT IT WAS BECAUSE ANITA ATE MARMEE NOIR THAT THE WEIRD SHIT HAPPENED. But that’s not really what matters or what the book spends any time on, so don’t worry about it.Instead, remember the last book, where Anita cracked the case by literally grabbing a computer and praying into it so God would let her talk to the victim on the other end of a web cam? All of a sudden, in this book, Anita has no idea how to use a computer. Getting access to an email attachment suddenly involves waking up one of her men from a dead sleep to accompany her to the vampire computer lab (yes, that’s really a thing) and enter her login and password, because despite not being your grandmother, this is all too complicated and newfangled for her. Hopefully, Apple is working on an iGod app for the rest of us, so we can just pray fervently into our phones and laptops and get instant access to the exact email attachment and/or cat gifs we are looking for at that particular moment.On the other hand, Anita’s penguin collection makes a rare appearance! So weird to see any mention of something that has any connection to the beginning of this series! But here, it’s used as evidence, once again, of how superior Anita is to other women in every way. In this particular case, she demonstrates her excellence by not really giving a shit about how her boyfriends decorate their shared bedroom, contributing only the penguins and some negative feedback on stuff she doesn’t think she will like (but ends up liking). Anita is the ultimate “guy’s girl,” who just doesn’t understand those silly other girls or the girl things they like (or her own deeply internalized misogyny). Any “girl” stuff Anita likes, on the other hand (like her penguins) is totally fine and also charming.Despite her claims to have no sense of interior decorating, Anita sure has a lot of opinions about the decorating style of her vampire servant Damian’s girlfriend Cardinale (got that?). The hideously monogamous Cardinale is an “extreme girl,” as evidenced by the fact that she gets jealous and wants a monogamous relationship. This is obviously the wrong way to be a person. Cardinale’s crimes are demonstrated through such grievous sins as decorating her shared bedroom with Damian with a flowered bedspread. I don’t even know why such a monster is allowed to live in this series. I don’t understand why Anita hasn’t gone right out to get a warrant from the Marshal service and executed her. But I guess she serves as yet another important object to demonstrate (again) that everyone in a monogamous relationship is either (1) evil and selfish, or (2) trapped in that relationship by the person who is evil and selfish.Just to drive that point home, Ascher, who was trapped in a monogamous relationship with some dude whose name I can’t really be bothered to remember or look up right now, on account of how Ascher was an abusive dick who also kind of tried to murder everyone, is now ready to become less of an abusive and murderous dick and also less monogamous thanks to - and I am not making this up - therapy and antidepressants. How does that even work? Isn’t vampire physiology pretty different from just human? Can he even eat a solid pill and digest it, or does he have to suck the blood of some medicated depressed person to get his dose? And who, exactly, is this therapist everyone is working with? What therapist specializes in the issues of vampires and were-animals who were born in and were tortured throughout different centuries and now are all in a giant polyamorous relationship with each other? Is there a degree certificate you can take in this? What accrediting agency oversees that?But we don’t have any time to go into that, because instead we need to spend several dozen pages describing what everyone is wearing at the gym. LKH has really gone overboard with her belief that minutely describing every detail about a person’s physical appearance counts as character development or creating atmosphere. Personally, I don’t think I’ve learned everything there is to know about someone by learning whether their gym shorts are long or short, compression or loose, and what color their hair is and how it is styled for working out. There is also a Highly Dramatic Scene where some new guard messes up his job and picks a (verbal) fight with Anita, and she ends up promising him that she will throw down with him physically at the gym, and they go back and forth for several pages about whether or not she is serious, and when exactly they will schedule this fight, and then...they never fight. The book forgets about the whole incident entirely, because everyone has to go to Ireland.This brings us all the way up to Chapter 33: Weresnakes On A Plane. Not really, but it would have been more interesting, actually, as opposed to the word-by-word playback of 8 hours of idle plane small talk. For example, page 373:“So, Mephistopheles, why didn’t you rebel and become the perfect little angel?” I asked….“I went the other way,” he said, in a voice that almost purred. “I decided to be my name.”“Mephistopheles,” I said.“Devil,” he said.OMFG and this is at least the 18th time in the book so far that someone has pointed out that Mephistopheles is one of the names for the Devil, and they usually call Mephistopheles “Devil” as his nickname, and often shorten that to “Dev.” Which is short for “Devil.” Because Mephistopheles means “Devil.” I’m not sure you’re getting this. Should I go through it again? You can bet LKH will. She also keeps using the phrase “girl trap” throughout this book, to indicate the act of asking a question you don’t really want an honest answer to, even though at least half the time, they are addressing the accusation to men. This careless misogyny is grosser and more morally objectionable than any of the consensual-but-supposed-to-shock-you sex acts anyone gets involved in, frankly.As usual, once they are actually in Ireland and the “investigation” part of the book has (finally...kind of…) started, Anita is exactly as smart or as stupid as the lazy plotting requires her to be. Her intelligence and competence is not a fixed point around which her reactions to any given plot occurrence can be guessed. No, if a stray idea for a plot point would require Anita to be exceedingly stupid and forget all common sense and experience, then that is what she will do.For example, she has a blind trust that the police in Ireland will be sufficient to protect her and her friends from a super-strong vampire who wants to kidnap and kill one of their group, even though the police in Ireland had no idea that this vampire or any other vampire lived in Ireland, have no experience with vampires, have non-existent vampire-fighting and -containing equipment, and also actively hate Anita and don’t even want her in the country. But no, I’m sure that will all work out just fine. (SPOILER ALERT THIS DID NOT WORK OUT FINE.) It also extends to Anita saying stuff like (p. 387) “In all the years I’d been intimate with vampires, first hunting them and then sleeping with them, I’d never asked about cloud cover. I mean, if your skin fried in the sunlight, was a cloudy day worth the risk?”……25 books, and this is the FIRST time she’s ever dealt with the question of how cloud cover effects vampires? But then, after that, Anita amazes everyone with her mad vampire-hunter skillz by...revealing that she has read an article of relevance to her job. She explains that (basically) she has an RSS feed that sends her relevant stuff on her computer. So...now she CAN use a computer? Or is this something someone else has to print off and read to her?Whatever. Anita and her friends get captured by the bad guys, who demonstrate their badness by giving Nathaniel an involuntary haircut. Then they get out and everyone is fine (except the people it is more convenient to kill off) and there is the usual 2 page wrap-up of stuff that should have been fully-fleshed-out plot but couldn’t really be explored because of all the gym clothing.And there is your super-long review of this super-long stupid book.