If I cross the spoiler line in my reviews, I'm sorry. It's so hard for me to tell where that line exists, since spoilers don't bother me in the slightest and it seems like occasionally the line has drifted from killer's identity/twist to any major plot point. I usually read a brief recap, sometimes I cheat and read the last few chapters if I get particularly nervous in a story line for reassurance--if anything knowing vaguely what happens soothes me, because I can just relax and appreciate story lines instead of the gotcha moments. And with this book, you don't need to read the previous The Three first, which is something she's done on all her series actually, it doesn't hurt. Though to discuss either in relation to one another well, is spoiler territory.Though, you can't really skip and read the last 25 pages of either book and really know what happened. She does pretty much tell you, but there are clues scattered though out both books to what happens, since there are a lot of terrible things happening at the same time on multiple levels. And you have to almost appreciate the sly cleverness of the "villain" and the author.The endings of The Three and Day Four appear to be controversial because how startling they are. I liked the interview with the author at the end of this, where she talks about the lengthy research for this project and her non traditional endings:"No. There's nothing worse than spoon-feeding and underestimating readers - especially as I know from experience most of them are way smarter than I am. But the answers are all there. They're just not spelled out."So spoilers galore and theories below!I took The Three's reveal with the last chapter that the children had been really dead all along and their bodies had been taken over by a collective malevolent entity. More like curious sociopath children possessed by demons or potentially spooky elder god-like force or alien hive mind. There weren't that many more clues to WHO is behind all this--Althea muses at one point that Celine could be the devil, but oh well. Does it really matter? A personal assistant or maid is not going to be the one who takes down Satan or Cthulu or Xenu.Whatever is behind the events though likes to manipulate in-person--the children in the last book messing with the minds of those around them (the corpses that kept visiting Paul in the last book, and pretty much every character in this book deals with some nightmare vision or ghost)--and is running scenarios testing world's reactions for fun.This book I took it as the Malevolent Force (MV I guess for short) was creating parallel universes. The clues are there from the start, beyond the last chapter in The Three. The Three mentions a couple times about cruise ship problems directly after Black Thursday, but when everything turned out okay, that got dropped as a potential sign of End Times. The children in this universe never survived the accidents; Pamela never managed to get her phone out to leave a rambling voice mail about her dog. The Dominionist Evangelicals don't win the presidency. There is no religious outpouring following the plane crashes. In this reality, Bobbie Smalls is dead and a psychic is fleeing bad publicity from getting Lillian Smalls to believe her grandson survived (but he did in the other timeline) by going on a 4 Day Mexican Cruise.Just a few hours from docking back in port, there's a small fire in Engineering, the electricity stops, and the boat goes dead in the water. Norovirus outbreaks abound. Thanks to cheap cutbacks there are only 4 security guards for 3,000 panicked tourists and a harried downtrodden crew ready to snap. The toilets stop working. The officers hide in the bridge and the obnoxious cruise director has cheery hourly announcements about nothing to add to the mordant humor. A methodical serial rapist who uses these cruises as a cover (lonely vulnerable women in singles groups, drugs in drink, cruise lines unwilling to publicize or investigate all make perfect hunting ground) messes up and accidentally kills a woman and starts to become unglued. One good cop onboard trying to make up for a past where he was forced to let a rapist get away on a mission to find the killer.The psychic now possessed by MV is growing her flock of believers in one of the theaters. She probably had some psychic ability but helped her flashes of insight with good old fashioned con artistry and cold readings. As she disappears to laughingly arrange the horror show, her assistant teams up with the blogger there to expose her, as the ship breaks down believably into anarchy within a few days. In the storm, as the crew abandons the ship and thousands of the passengers flee in lifeboats in terrible waters. The ones who don't leave are the acolytes of Ceilne, the the main characters for various reasons. Several thousand die in the storm and the ship that looked like it would sink, turns out to be fine, and *poof* the electricity comes back on.Like ghost ships and Bermuda Triangle, book implies that they went into another parallel reality--in this case, The Three's time, after the events of that book. Nuclear war, civil wars, virus and Miami is completely deserted and piled with corpses. The corpses and devastation look months old but they've just been gone a week. Books are different and newspaper information doesn't match, so they draw their own conclusions.The MV inhabiting Celine gives everyone a chance--go and start a new Eden with her on a happy Resort Island, or go back. Of course on returning on deserted ghost ship missing 3,000 people, with all sorts of crazy unbelievable evidence of alternate universes and alien or Evil Ancient Gods fucking with the world, the interrogation doesn't go so awesomely. And you know without ever catching any glimpse of personality from the government documents that the survivors most likely were quietly killed or kept in confinement, with the typical WTF is going to happen next last chapter here.Nothing good. Since MV is now in the little kid and anything that flies winds up in some nightmare realm. With no air travel possible and where are all the planes disappearing to wracking the world, doesn't bode well for the poor nanny taking care of him.Basically its Langoliers meets The Shining set on a a cruise ship.