Thank you Quirk Books for my beautiful gifted copy in exchange for an honest review. IYKYK, my reviews are always honest.side note: damn it really pains me when I receive a physical book and I just don't vibe with it. I want to like it SO BAD and I am SO grateful, but the hoes (me) cannot lieSYNOPSISErin is addicted to Silas and Silas is addicted to drugs. After he ODs, Erin is told she can see the dead by poppin a pill called Ghost. But when she starts to see ghosts everywhere, she wonders if the come down is worth the high.MY OPINIONUnfortunately I cannot make this spoiler free, so the non spoiler version is:-Three unconnected storylines forced together – one was completely abandoned. Missed opportunity for a truly good book if the author had picked a lane but he was swervin all over the place.-Seemingly pivotal events were glossed over-Took almost 40% of the book to get to the first seance, which is the big hook of the synopsis so wtf? If you're gonna put something in the synopsis, it needs to be poppin off immediately because the reader already knows the big "turning point" of the book.-The ending was doing entirely too muchNOW FOR THE SPOILER DIALOGUE... SCROLL TO THE BOTTOM IF YOU PLAN TO READ THIS BOOKFirst things first, YES I kept an open mind because ya'll know I'm a lil scaredy cat. But like Hidden Shitshow (Pictures) I was not scared. I know that all horror doesn't have to scare the bejeesus outta ya... but shouldn't there be spooky vibes? A lil ominous feeling? Idk this was just giving me... CONFUSION.There is a good book in here. In fact, there may be THREE good books. But instead, we have three different storylines mashed together and then one of them was yeeted out the window. On one hand, we have the historical rando ghosts. This book takes place in Richmond and when Erin takes Ghost and starts "haunting" aka tripping, she starts seeing all the ghosts of Richmond's past. I'm like ight this is kinda cool IF we delved into why the ghosts wanted to be seen, their particular backstories, why they were lickin her from her head to her toe, and why they were sitll haunting the same ole place because from my understanding these hoests (hoes + ghosts ya I said it) could zip around town. ANyways. That could've been a whole novel by itself.Next we have the "I need to find Silas even though he's a mega POS who used me like a crack pipe" storyline. This in itself had strong points and very weak points. I get that this is a toxic relationship, but there was a failure to show why Erin couldn't make up her mind. Even when Silas was dead, within two paragraphs homegirl was like I'm done, nvm pass me the Ghost. There wasn't enough emotional build up about her connection with Silas other than telling the reader "yo she's obsessed with this man" *cue Mariah Carey's Obsessed*Onto the third storyline... we have a beautiful exploration of how easy it is to fall into addiction and how difficult it is to recover and "break free." This was the strongest of the three storylines IMO. However, I didn't feel the connection between Erin's need to see Silas and her descent into addiction was clear enough because homegirl wasn't even talking to Silas half the time, she's was just chasing some furry ghost baby around the trap house. Within this storyline there was also a half-hearted attempt at exploring her most inner desires (domestic bliss with a bebe) but this also seemed out of left field because she never mentioned wanting to settle down with Silas? They apparently had been "just friends" for years? Idk.Ok and then in the middle of all this we have the revelation that Amara, Erin's alleged bestie, was shebanging Silas on the low. Here we have the classic wifey vs mistress fight where Mrs. Dummy claims HE KNOWS WHERE HIS HOME IS. Except Silas is dead, so in this case it's HE KNOWS WHO'S BODY HE USES AS A VESSEL TO COME BACK "HOME". This scene had me ROLLING. And then immediately after they bicker about ghost dick, Erin brushes this off and never thinks about it again and continues to go full dummy for Silas??? WTF??? LOL. At least have some inner conflict about whether you should be ruining your life over a guy who's dick was a community pool.Damn this is long so I apologize but I have THOUGHTS. The basement scene was just TROLOLOLOL. I don't even want to get into it.PROS AND CONSPros: 2/3 storyline were interesting, jokey jokes (but tbh I'm not sure if it was intentionally funny?), powerful depiction of addictionCons: there were nuggets of gold in here but the author kept kicking it away from the reader. A solid editing sesh and maybe breaking the storylines into individual novellas would've worked better.