Brian Keene sure knows how to deliver a sequel, with Ghost Walk we are taken on a adventure that is just as amazing as it's predecessorDark Hollow. While some of the characters do return from Dark Hollow, Ghost Walk does act as a self contained story where it counts. With that in mind I do feel if you have read Dark Hollow, the enjoyment of this novel will be much better overall.Brian Keeneknocks it out of the park with introducing a new character named Levi Stoltzfus, the character really carries every scene he happens to be in. In a lot of ways Levi is the sort of character Brian needed to introduce to bring his Labyrinth mythology to life. We are also given a much more thorough explanation of what The Thirteen are and how they impact all of the stories Brian Keene has written throughout his career. Personally by the end ofGhost WalkI was left with such a emotional knock out, the type of one two punch that I haven't felt in a long time reading a book.Ghost Walk has three main protagonists named Maria, Ken Ripple, and Levi Stoltzfus. All of them unite to stop Nodens who is the living embodiment of darkness. In that regard the real strength in this series is the main antagonist named Nodens who is the king of the Thirteen, the type of powerful entity who will drain the entire planet dry if given the chance. All ofBrian Keene's novels are untied under one mythology called The Labyrinth mythos, which is why events fromGhoulandTerminalare referenced in Ghost Walk. For new readers knowing all about these other books aren't needed to enjoy Ghost Walk, they are just minor nods and winks for the more experienced fans. Brian Keene's Labyrinth mythos are a ongoing mythology that is on par withH.P. Lovecraft's Cthulhu mythology andStephen King's Dark Tower saga. Seeing them unfold slightly in this novel was a real treat for devoted fans such as myself.The main antagonist in this novel has the ability to confront you with the skeletons in your closet. If there is something you are deeply ashamed of or something you painfully regret, then it will resurface it self thanks to the power of Nodens. There are a lot of characters in this novel that have a lot to be shameful for, things that any reader might be able to relate to. After all we all go through good and bad times, sometimes the outcome isn't what we wished for it to be. Sometimes bad things happen despite our best intentions and in the face of giving our 100% percent to any given cause. And just like Adam Senft sometimes those situations can twist and turn us into something we never thought we could be. I think that is why I found myself relating to a lot of these characters thatBrian Keenehas written about. We have all suffered loss at some point in our life on this planet, the author does a wonderful job at pulling at those strings with his main characters.Overall I give Brian Keene's Ghost Walk afive out of five stars. It is a fun type of monster tale that has real emotional depth to all of it's characters. I really felt the depths of Adam Senft's despair and self loathing. I know what it is like to be your own worst enemy, I felt like Brian projected a lot of that onto his muse in this story. Adam was in his own personal hell in this novel, so I could understand why he was lashing out at those around him. There was a lot of gut wrenching moments that took me back and left me examining my own personal losses. If there is a theme to both Dark Hollow and Ghost Walk, I would say it is the suffering of loss and the pain of dealing with guilt. Brian is a master of writing characters that you become attached to, only to be put through a emotional meat grinder with them. I am extremely thankful toward Brian Keene for bringing these characters to life and for giving me a lot to think about this past few years.I would like to thank all of my friends who read both Dark Hollow and Ghost Walk with me. I look forward to reading the next book in the seriesA Gathering of Crowswith all of you. Here is a link to our buddy read if you would like to join!:https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...