Kristopher Triana first came onto my radar when I heard him talk with Brian Keene on a recent episode of The Horror Show. I’ve been wanting to take a deeper dive into the genre of Splatterpunk so learning that Triana was a Splatterpunk Award winner, I quickly added him to my “must read” list.After acquiring and binge-reading his latest novel, GONE TO SEE THE RIVER MAN, I can now confidently recommend the works of Kristopher Triana to anyone who will listen. This book has teeth and I’m not talking about a story that scratches at the surface and causes a little discomfort. When I say teeth, I mean words that penetrate beyond what is tolerable, inducing extreme, lasting pain.This book hurts.This is the story of a woman named Lori who has an unhealthy infatuation with a prison inmate named, Edmund. He’s not your garden variety “one and done” murderer. Edmund did unspeakable things to his female victims. It’s inconceivable why our protagonist Lori is so enamored with him.As the story progresses and the intimacy between Lori and Edmund grows, he eventually asks her to go on an errand and she accepts. She sees his request as a test of her love and loyalty.She brings along her older sister, Abby, who clearly suffers mentally and physically from a childhood accident. The reader learns more and more about Lori as she embarks on her mysterious errand to prove to her new flame that she’s serious about her love for him.This synopsis sounds so tame but believe me when I say it’s anything but. On one hand, I feel like rolling out a huge list of trigger warnings, but on the other hand, readers don’t fall into the pages of extreme horror to be coddled or protected. I’m going to trust that after reading this review, if you decide to pick this one up, you’re fully capable of handling what this book throws at you. Triana did not write this book just for shock value and that’s what I loved about it the most. One of the very first things I noticed was the underlying intentionality assigned to each character’s motivations. A huge pet peeve of mine is a horror story with a 2 dimensional antagonist who does all this crazy shit but the author doesn’t give us any backstory or motivation. It’s wildly unbelievable and not the least bit disturbing. Triana is an example of the pendulum swinging the other way. His characters are very dimensional and complex. Everything is explicitly explained with care and attention; nothing is spoon-fed to the reader. Triana trusts his audience to dance back and forth between a present day narrative and a past timeline in order to gather evidence of the protagonist’s motivations. He lets us speculate, meditate, and assume.There’s an intense character study on Lori, every dark deed exposed to the light. The reader is given copious amounts of unflinching details in order for us to play judge and jury. And she's not even the one behind bars. The result is an insanely compelling, addictive storyline that marches right up to the conclusion and bares down on any hope of redemption the reader has left. I was left feeling gutted and at the same time, a sense of urgency to buy more of Kristopher Triana’s books.