Claire sighed. "You've lost your mind.Riding in the console as always these days, Lucky Boy giggled.Claire picked up Lucky Boy and shook the toy in Sergio's direction. "And you play with dolls."Sergio grabbed for Lucky Boy. "Put him down!" He turned to look at Claire, and the truck swerved.Claire held Lucky Boy away from Sergio. "You've started treating it like a guru, and I was going along with it. But really, Sergio. It's a tchotchke, a doll, a little statue. It's not your personal guide through life. If you think it is, you're a weirdo." Claire pressed the button to lower her window. "You need to get rid of this thing." She raised her arm to toss Lucky Boy out of the truck.Sergio lunged for Lucky Boy, and as he did, he wrenched the wheel.Finally back into Frights after reading all the Tales books I could get my hands on. Was excited to finish this one because I was really enjoying it, and it did end up being mostly a good book, the best sinceFazbear Frights #2: Fetch!The first and titular story isGumdrop Angel, which surprised me with its quality. It's about a girl named Angel who dislikes her family (especially her younger sister) and eventually can't take it anymore. Now, that undeniably sounds very similar toLonely Freddyfrom the second book (which is quite a bit better), but I think Gumdrop Angel manages to find is own identity and land it well. The story takes two risks at once; an experimental premise that is untraditional to the FNaF franchise plus a greater focus on emotions than horror, both of which are hit-or-miss concepts for this series. But to my surprise, I found myself thoroughly interested and moved by this narrative. I'd give it a 4/5 stars.The second story isSergio's Lucky Dayand it has instantly become one of my new favourites. It's about an architect named Sergio whose life is turned around when he discovers a strange talking figurine that seems to bring him great luck. I adored this story, although many will not. A lot of it is less straight up horror and more 'this is actually quite light-hearted, perhaps even comedic, but I'm so tense this whole time because Iknowthis is a horror story so what's going to happen' which worked really well to me. And that ending... boy, it delivers on the tensionhard. Combine this with a bit of character bias, as the figurine Sergio finds is a variant of Balloon Boy fromFive Nights at Freddy's 2, one of my favourite characters in the franchise! That's why this story is so special to me, and why I'm giving it a 4.5/5 stars.The third story,What We Found, is what unfortunately prevents this book from being a home run. It's about a man named Hudson whose life has been filled with abuse and letdowns, so he ends up taking a job at the Fazbear's Fright Horror Attraction to make ends meet. Many will notice this story is essentially a direct adaptation of the concept behindFive Nights at Freddy's 3, where a horror attraction based on Freddy Fazbear's Pizza is being prepared and the organisers find Springtrap, a classic mascot suit with the corpse of a notorious serial killer trapped inside. Hence the guard must survive against him when the rotten animatronic is introduced into the building. However, What We Found takes a pretty subversive approach by focusing aloton Hudson's trauma, really just amping up the sadness while the animatronic horror feels more like a side note. It's not very pleasant to read, but it's not scary either. It's just misery. And my lack of adoration for Springtrap means this story doesn't get any bias points, much likePressurefrom Tales. Unfortunately I'll have to give this just a 3/5 stars.Finally there's the epilogue. It would be crazy to try to top the incredible epilogue in #7, so this one is a lot calmer, but it's still really good and the story still delivers on really interesting twists and turns which tie perfectly into the overall themes of FNaF. This includes revisiting a certain familiar location... 4/5 stars.Overall, a really good book with only one dud! Not sure if we'll get anything better than this for the rest of the series, I hear they're not great...