Graphic Audio edition is out and time to do a re-listen in 2025.Even better on the re-read. The only bad thing...once I started I couldn't stop. Now it is already over.4.75 Let’s play who can be a better killer StarsReading with my fellow Kate Daniels is da Bomb fan club atIlona Andrews Addicts (IAA)If you have read my profile then you know that my 2 favorite authors are Brandon Sanderson (BS) and Ilona Andrews (IA).I fangirl over them any chance I get so I might not be impartial in my reviews of their books, and I probably add way too many status updates while reading them….I can’t help it.I didn’t fall into the camp of those who didn’t love the last two books, I still gave them 4 stars and 3.5 stars respectively. I liked the emotional journey that Kate was starting to take I just missed Kate and Curran together. But I’m back to absolutely LOVING all things Kate.The thing that was missing for me in the other books was really Kate with Curran and fighting the good fight together. I was a little worried that I wasn’t going to like the new direction of the story with Kate and Curran leaving the pack. What about all the side characters I love…what about Curran being the Man….what about Kate having protection from Roland???? But I don’t know why I worried at all because IA would not let me down and I’m loving the new direction of the story.First, what about all the side characters I love?- They are there! IA finds a way to incorporate them into the new direction of the story and honestly it was so smooth and flawless that afterwards I asked myself how come I didn’t think of that. As always IA has some of the best side characters. Whether it is a giant Donkey, a scraggly poodle, a teenage werewolf (seriously how long is Derek going to be a teenager), a fallen Angel (or whatever Christopher is), a slightly dirty talking (I will never think of plums the same way) Alpha Werewolf Desandra, or your charismatic Father who’s ultimate game I’m still trying to figure out there are so many great cast members that are all distinctive and three dimensional.IA’s biggest problem is all the great characters that I want to see more of in the book. There are so many and I want to see them all but then I’d have less Kate and Curran time, or the book would be 700 pages long and 350 of that would just be nonsense conversations between my favorite characters. I’m not saying I’d be opposed to it but still IA does such a great job of keeping all the characters in the story relevant and engaging. That has to be hard with such a great cast to choose from.Luther was my favorite new addition to the cast. He is going to be a hoot, I knew it from his first conversation with Kate“When I quit the Order, you told me I was besmirched.”“That’s because you quit in a huff over some silliness like trying to save people’s lives. I quit to maximize my earning potential. Don’t you know being a hero is a losing bet? The pay is shit and people hate you for it.”He was such a great addition to the Kate Daniels family, she is building quite a unique list of family, friends and acquaintances for later when daddy comes calling.Second, what about Curran being the Man- I was never worried about Kate, she is always a badass. But I was worried about Curran and how I would feel about him if he wasn’t the Beast Lord and you know whatI love him more. He doesn’t have to put up with pack council meeting and being pulled in a thousand directions and all of the other ridiculousness that goes along with it. He has time to spend with Kate and really dedicate himself to their lives together. Which translates into more page time together and I definitely love that. The banter they have with each other is one of my favorite things.“Why am I the expert all of a sudden?”“Of the two of us, you have more stalking experience.”He leaned back. “Really?”“Yes. When you let yourself into my apartment before we were dating, did you fidget while you watched me?”“Will you let it go?” he growled.“No”“I didn’t fidget. I checked on you to make sure you hadn’t gotten yourself killed. I wanted to know that you weren’t dying slowly of your wounds, because you have no sense and half of the time you couldn’t afford a medmage. I didn’t stand there and watch you. I came in, made sure you were okay, and left. It wasn’t creepy.”“It was a little creepy.”“It worked, didn’t it?”“Worked how?”“You’re still alive.”Beastlord logic at its best. Just because you take the Alpha out of the Keep doesn’t mean he isn’t the Alpha anymore.When the werelion roars everyone cowares…except Kate cuz she would pull on death’s whiskers.Chatpers 11 and 12 of this book absolutely gutted me emotionally. They happened out of left field and I wasn’t expecting it, but really in life that is how those things happen so it felt too real. If there was even any doubt about the true feelings of these two characters for each other these chapters should take care of that. If you don’t absolutely know Kate and Curran are in love after these chapters I doubt anything would do it for you.They are quite possibly the best written chapters that IA has ever done in any of their books.If you thought that Curran would be less without the pack well you are dead wrong. He will always be Curran and he will undoubtedly always fall into a leadership role. It will just be very interesting to see how that transitions.”…When I was fifteen and Mahon pushed me to reach for power, I did it because I was young and stupid. I thought it was a crown. I didn’t realize it was a ball and chain instead.I’m off my chain now. I like it.”I like it too, anything could happen.Third, what about Kate having protection from Roland- Honestly I’m not sure anything can help them he is so powerful. I thought they did a great job of showing this in a single telephone conversation. Roland is so powerful that just over the phone to see how he affected the people in the room with Kate really hit it home.Roland is such an interesting bad guy because part of him wants to be a father and the other part is ready to destroy Kate. He is shrouded in mystery and I’m never quite sure what his true motivations are. But their conversations with each other are mesmerizing. Kate’s conversations with Erra and Hugh were really good but Roland is something else. His explanation of killing Kate’s mother was both terrible and hearbreaking.“Besides, you knew Kalina best.” I watched him closely and the corners of his eyes trembled when I said her name. How does your own bitter medicine taste, Father? Have another spoon on me. “Why don’t you tell me about her? You were there till the end. You saw the light go out of her eyes.”Roland took a swallow of his wine. “If you wish to know how your mother died, I will tell you, Blossom. Ask me.”Walk away. Walk away, because that way lie dragons.IA has a way of making me empathize with Roland and at the same time I’m so worried about what his plans are for Kate. He seems like he is there to cause a lot of trouble like a few other bad guys we know and love.The StoryIlona Andrews always finds a way to put a new spin on old lore. This book is no different I love the way they tied in the Ghoul’s to the other Arabic mythologies and Genies. It was different and unique, I’ve never read one of their books and thought that I’ve heard that mythos before. They keep raising the bar on both the weirdness of the creatures they fight and the peril.Edwardo has disappeared and Mahon doesn’t seem that upset that he is gone. Seems very un-alpha like right. But he has his reasons…they suck but they are reasons and they fit him. George is determined to find someone to help find Edwardo. Kate and Curran are on it, but they keep running into the weirdest creatures that are doing things they aren’t supposed to. Like regenerating when they die into something else. If things can’t get any strangers there are ghouls traveling in packs trying to get into the city and a Giant that decided to roam about. Just another day for Kate and company. On top of that Kate’s dad wants to meet for dinner and bond. Once we hit our stride there in never a dull moment.That’s all I’m going to give you on the story because I really enjoyed the plot of it and seeing how Kate and Curran juggle all of this and try to be parents to Julie. Curran has some really interesting ideas of how to parent. Most parents try to keep you out of danger but Curran is more hands on and if Kate is your adoptive mom well you will need some practice.“Just so I get it right, Jim calls you and says, ‘Hey, we found a horde of ghouls in the MARTA tunnels,’ and your first thought was, ‘Great, I’ll take the kids’?”“They had fun.” A careful note crept into his voice. Curran saw the shark fin in the water but wasn’t sure where the bite would be coming from.“You even took the dog.”Grendel chose that moment to try to shove past me. I shoved him back into the Guild and he began running back and forth behind us, growling.“He had fun, too. Look at him. He’s still excited.”Really it sounds like a great time. I’d love to read about Curran, Julie, Ascandio and Grendel taking on a pack of Ghouls.Kate is the strict parent who knew….lolI had a great time with this book and loved discussing it with some fellow Ilona Andrews Addicts while we were reading it.If you were holding off because books #6 and #7 weren’t it for you I think you might like the new direction of the series.Currently my love breakdown of the series is :3 > 4 > 8 > 5 > 6 > 2 > 7 > 1Short Pre Review:❤ - The new direction of the story. Pack I don’t need no stinking pack.ღ - The new characters added into the story *cough* Luther *cough*❣ - The Ilona Andrews special twist to the lore they used. Never look at a Genie or Ghouls the same again.♡ - The absolutely heart wrenching moments of chapters 11 and 12. Best written chapters in the entire series to date (in my humble opinion). My heart still hurts.❥- Roland’s fatherly moments. I KNOW he is a sociopath…but he is a charming sociopath and I’d totally meet him for dinner. Most of the time I’m torn as if I like him or hate him.❦ - Kate/Curran page time. Thank you thank you thank you they are finally together on page more often and I freaking love it.❧ - Sherrim’s smack down of Saimon and Curran’s smack down to Mahon.❤ - The inner circle...you know who they are. I loved seeing all their new roles in this book and I can’t wait to see where they all end up next.