An exciting, gross interpretation of vampire mythology that is built upon the fears and anxieties of having a new baby and then multiplied by the numerous physical and mental issues that spring from sudden disability. Does that sound like a lot? Because it isn’t. Cassidy manages to play with all those ideas and more in this distinctly New York story that doesn’t shy away from rough edges and taboo emotions.The characters take center stage here, with both of our leads feeling painfully genuine and relatable. They both go on journeys through this story, and the third character, their relationship, transforms as a result. To see both of them meet the (supernatural?) influences of their new apartment in different ways, and how those reactions affected their character trajectory, was really well-handled. Cassidy displays incisive journeys into family dynamics in the face of grief after grief after grief. In the same regard the world-building was effective. Setting it in NYC during the Covid pandemic was a specific choice, and that already created an atmosphere and vibe, it provided an easy shorthand. But the world of their apartment building, the worlds the characters wrapped themselves in, those were also meticulous, moving things that played an important part in the experience. The ideas it is playing with, all of which circle around grief as a nucleus but vary widely, feel appropriate and exciting in this context, and none overly didactic or heavy-handed. (There is one quite heavy-handed ancillary character that borders caricature territory… but at the same time I have met my share of people like him, so the caricature is probably more what dark parts of themselves people feel comfortable nurturing and displaying these days). The ideas vary from disability and its emotional burden for the disabled and their caregivers, postpartum depression, financial instability, antisemitism, and more. Cassidy isn’t trying to preach in any way, these are just very real things that are affecting our characters and become really interesting avenues for exploration, highlighted and exacerbated by the horror of the novel.I am torn on the writing and pacing, a little. The chapters are all relatively short, and each chapter is further broken down into sections, some of which are only a few paragraphs long. This results in a very quick reading experience, constantly pulling the reader along, and I appreciated that. However, it was competing with a relatively slow first half. Cassidy provides a few stingers at the end of chapters to remind us that this is a horror novel, but the first half still feels like it is either a little puffed out and could be trimmed or it is missing something. This is because we understand the vibes of the new apartment and how it affects the family pretty quickly, the dark and seriously unaccommodating atmosphere is established relatively quickly, and in the amount of time given to flesh out the characters’ new trajectories not a whole lot happens that the reader wouldn’t intuit early on, in part because Cassidy does such a good job of building up these characters. The writing style, which is to say direct prose moving between the two main characters seamlessly while giving us just enough insights into their inner dialogues to help really make these characters feel real, short sentences, and convincing dialogue, all contained in the short chapter structure I mention above, works well for the story, it made sure I was never bored. But it didn’t hide that maybe a little a little more could have happened to increase tensions even more in that first half. The back half definitely makes up for it, though, with wonderful action scenes and great, all-encompassing horror. The other thing that felt like rough edges that could have used a little more sanding were that there were a couple of ancillary characters we meet that play important roles in the plot, and that was telegraphed in a pretty apparent and what felt like clumsy way. It didn’t take away from the narrative or how they fit into the resolution, but when they came up earlier in the novel it felt like arrows pointing at the characters saying, “remember this thing right here,” and it didn’t have to be that way. I liked the characters, and I like the way they fit in the big picture, I just don’t think they were introduced or utilized as smoothly as they could have.Still, though, no real complaints. Cassidy is looking at family/relationship and grief in a really intimate way, and he is using a fresh and imaginative approach to vampires to do it. He has relatable characters and strong world-building combined with tight writing and a satisfying narrative. I didn’t want to put it down once I started, and whenever I did put it down it left me with more to think about than I had in my head when I picked it up.(Rounded up from 3.5)