Once, Samantha had forgotten part of a school project. She and her mom were rushing around already because her mom had overslept. They had finally run out of the house and to the car, and her mom had only driven as far as the bottom of their driveway, when Samantha realized what she'd left behind in her room."I have to go back," she said.Her mom hit the brakes so hard Samantha's head shot forward and back. She figured her mom would quickly drive back up to the house. Instead, her mom bent over and pounded her head several times on the steering wheel. She whispered something over and over while she did it. Samantha thought it sounded like, "I can't do this."In my review of 1:35 AM (Fazbear Frights #3), I stated it was the worst book in the series so far by a small margin. Step Closer is the new worst book in the series so far, and this time by a fairly large margin. It's also in the opposite way to 1:35 AM; while that book had 3 great stories and 1 mediocre one, this book has 3 mediocre stories and 1 fantastic one.Step Closer, the titular and first story, is a disappointedly simple plot with very strange choices. The premise is that a boy, through bullying his younger brother, accidentally inflicts a curse on himself that causes him to constantly be in peril from specific injuries across many different situations, seemingly part of a plan to permanently deform him. While pretty much every previous main Frights story had some level of complexity to their plot and morals, this one doesn't really at all; it's just a repeated fest of comedic injuries. The characters themselves and their interactions are also very weird, especially when it comes to the protagonist's parents. The horror is decent though, and like with 1:35 AM I do really love the ending, so overall I have no strong feelings. 3 stars.Dance With Me, the second story, is quite honestly the exact same story as 1:35 AM. A group of thieves including our protagonist steal a woman's handbag, and when our protagonist looks through it she finds a pair of glasses from an animatronic entertainment establishment which reveal to her a holographic character constantly stalking her. Already, it sounds similar to the plot of 1:35 AM, but the similarities get even more frequent; both protagonists work at a fast food establishment which they have trouble at, both attempt to flee their hometowns to escape from their anomalous stalker, and both stories overall are metaphors for fleeing from your past. Dance With Me does not improve much on what 1:35 AM failed at, but it does improve a little. While it's hardly any scarier than 1:35, it does provide a more interesting cast of characters and a better overall meaning to its storytelling, so it ends up a little better, but still not great. Another 3 stars.Coming Home, the third story, is astonishingly tied (at this point) for the best story in the series with Out of Stock from Fetch. It focuses on a pair of sisters who have been torn apart by the worst tragedy imaginable; one of them has been murdered. It dives into much deeper and darker human complexities than other stories as it realistically and emotionally explores a family tragedy, while even putting in some well-fitting supernatural activity that FNaF fans expect. Fans may also appreciate how the focal character is directly paralleling one of the human characters from the game series; although they are not exactly the same. I give this one 4 and a half stars.With the bonus epilogue, we return to mediocrity with the new worst story in the series; pretty much just a weak dialogue exchange between two new characters adding some context to the mystery of the previous epilogues' plotlines. The character writing is pretty off in my opinion, but it is at least funny, and there is one event that is pretty terrifying. In the end though, it gets 2 and a half stars.Overall, it's hard to recommend this one; while it has one of the best stories in the entire franchise, everything else is not really worth reading. Maybe see if you can find a discount on it, or get it at a library to just read Coming Home.