| |blog|tumblr|ko-fi| |“Please don’t let’s get dramatic.”I've been a bithesitantabout writing this review since the majority of readers really enjoyed this debut. Howeversince Goodreads allows us toexpressandrespectour different opinions I don't see any harm in being honest.I didn't hateThe Silent Patientbut I did find thisnovelboth ridiculous and incompetent.Just becauseThe Silent Patienthas a "twist" that doesn't mean it should be labelled as being a psychological thriller. There is little to no suspense, the mystery is laughable, the tension largely MIA. Thepsychologyin this one is...well,the depiction of psychiatrist and psychotherapists is at best, laughable, at worst, ignorant.The book hinges completely on its "twist", a twist thatalso renders the majority of the narrativecompletely irrelevant.This book seems to meyet anotherweak attempt of jumping on the domestic thriller bandwagon.In short:Calling this a novel seems somewhat misleading. This reads more like some sort ofhackneyedscript.LONG REVIEW AHEAD (if you enjoyed this book I advise you to skip this rant-review)The Silent Patientis a really flawed piece of work. I will try to tackle what I personally thought were the major problems this book had (and yes, this is my subjective opinion):✎THE WRITING(idiotic dialogues + inane monologues + ham-handed metamorphoses + a complete lack of a sense of place)✖ I likeAgatha Christieand she has what I would call a 'dry' style of writing. Her mysteries are heavy on dialogue. The many conversations that her characters have are witty, amusing and or entertaining. The descriptions she provides perfectly render the characters' mannerisms and surroundings.Michaelides' writing mostly consisted in a series of dialogues between two characters and itreads like a script. It would work if what they spoke like actual peoplerather than this:“Perhaps I’m imagining it.But I’m sensing something… Keep an eye on it. Any aggression or competitiveness interferes with the work.You two need to work with each other, not against each other.”“But remember, with greater feeling comes greater danger.”The dialogues/monologuescame across as being incredibly silly and they make the characters sound like children.✖ There wereplenty of dramatic and over-the-top statements and or phrases that really ruinedpotentiallysignificant scenesand or somber moments of contemplation:“Her silence was like a mirror—reflecting yourself back at you.”~“Now I saw the truth.[She] hadn’t saved me—she wasn’t capable of saving anyone. She was no heroine to be admired—just a frightened, fucked-up girl, a cheating liar. This whole mythology ofusthat I had built up […] now collapsed in seconds—like a house of cards in a gust of wind.”~“How was this possible?Had she been acting the whole time? Had she ever loved me?”~“Why did she do it? How could she?”Jeez, melodramatic much?✖ Theo’s narrative was filled withpainfully overdone monologuesthat have little purpose since they don’t make Theo into a realistic and nuanced character and most of the time they do not even further the plot. Alicia’s narrative (that is, her diary) makes no sense but more on that when I tackle her character. It’s safe to say that, given that her diary entries included things such as “It took me a moment to speak. I was so taken aback I didn’t know what to say” and “I feel joyous. I feel full of hope”, I had a hard time ‘immersing’ myself or ‘buying’ into her narrative.Since this book is a ‘domestic thriller’ both Theo and Alicia don’t have sex they ‘fuck’. Because writing ‘we fucked’ makes the story gritty and ‘dark’ [insert laughter here].✖The Greek ‘connection’.Done properly, I usually love it when contemporary books draw parallels from Greek myths and or classics.Done properly.Comparing people to Greek statues and having your main characters referring to themselves as being a ‘Greek hero/heroine’ is the opposite of subtle:“She was a statue; a Greek goddess come to life in my hands.” ~ “He looked like a Greek statue” ~ “the actress playing Alcestis looked like a Greek statue” ~ “my fate was already decided—like in a Greek tragedy” ~ “Casting herself as a tragic heroine”.We have Diomedes who comes from “a long line of Greek shepherds” (and tells Theo that “every Greek knows his tragedies”). And finally we have Alicia’s painting which is entitled Alcestis.Both the painting and Euripides play hadpotential. They would have been enough.We didn’t need the constant reminder thatThe Silent Patientwants to be a ‘tragic play’. Like many other things in this book,the blatant symbolism managed to ruin a potentially good analogy.✖ These characters donotsound British.They talk like Americans(or what Americans sound like in a CSI episode). There are no British cultural references and or British expressions. This book could be set anywhere.✖ The story is set supposedly in the UK. But really, there is 0 sense of place. Who cares about giving your characters a backdrop? Why bother rendering a neighbourhood or an area of London? Who gives a fork about what a room or place looks like? Let's remember: this story could be set anywhere (ornowheregiven how realistic it is).✖ You could say that thefocus on dialogues and flat scenery are reminiscent of a play...which is fine but it doesn’t come across as such.This book just reminds me of a ‘B-movie’ script.There is no tragedy, no pathos , no wit.A 2nd grade play is closer to a 'classic' play than this book is.✖There is this attempt to make the two ‘main’ women ethereal which did provides a few laughs:“Her white dress glowed ghostlike in the torchlight” ~ “I remember so much white everywhere: […] the white of her eyes, her teeth, her skin. I’d never known that skin could be so luminous, so translucent ; ivory white with occasional blue veins visible just beneath the surface, like threads of color in white marble. She was a statue.” ~ “strands of long red hair falling across bony shoulders, blue veins beneath the translucent skin”.✎THE CHARACTERS✖ Theo. Our wannabeTom Ripley. Within a few pages we know that he is obsessed with Alicia (which makes him incredibly unprofessional) and he for the most part he is justsoooodull and whiny. He moans about his childhood,and his wife, Kathy, who is cheating on him because she is a beautiful actress so...that's what they do, isn't it?, andhis attempt(s) to self-fashion himself as some sort of tragic hero fail epically. Afterthe big reveal...well. His character makes even less forking sense. He stalked Alicia before breaking into her house. He must have known learnt about her, or made same 2+2 type of reasoning upon learning of her arrest. And he must have realised why she kept silent, especially after he reads Alcestis.This guy issoooothick.Hisdramatic monologues, constant whinging, and complete lack of awareness(I've said it before this man is thick) made him into a really unbelievable character.✖Alicia...she is beautiful.She loves having sex with her husband and painting. That’s about it. We are told that she was ‘charming’...buthow can she have gained this reputation since she has 0 friendsand her only real relationship is the one she has with Gabriel (her partner or whatever). Jean-Felix is the owner of a gallery but they don’t spend time together or are on friendly terms.Who is she charming to?She is a complete recluse! She lives in London and is good enough painter and yet...she has managed to make 0 connections.Her diary entries make her sound at best guileless and at worst like adementedchild. Her character is just an object.She is there to look beautiful and tragic.She has a fewbasic reactions(she just “looks up” or “looks down”) or she doesthe good ol’ ‘banshee’ act, flinging herself in a sudden ‘rage’ towards Theo or another patient. Wow. Such a deep and complex portrait of abetrayed and traumatised woman.✖The cast of characters consists in cardboard cutouts. Going back to Christie, sometimes exaggerated character can be entertaining. Especially if they are a parodying a certain type of person (the writer, the artist, the gossipy old lady and so forth). Here we have mere ‘sketches’ of people.We have Christian, who doesn’t like Theo because he is amassive bellendbully: “Christian glared at me.” “Christian looked irritated.” “Christian rolled his eyes at me.” “Christian laughed that annoying laugh of his.”We haveProfessor Diomedes who is Greek and is “an unorthodox man’...that’s it folks. That’s his character. Also,I cannot seriously believe that he was so unprofessional and blind about Theo (and his flagrant obsession with Alicia).Yuri is another pointless and unbelievable addition to the story.He is the head psychiatric nurse and comes from Latvia so heobviouslyhas to be weird about women.Makes perfect sense. Then we have Stephanie who has very little page time or importanceTheo having never even know of her existence knows immediately, before she even speaks, that she is Caribbean). We also have the “jolly Caribbean dinner ladies” (who,surprise surprise, are only mentionedonce).We have a few‘ugly’characters who are either ‘mad’ and or violent(Elif, a ‘massive’ Turkish woman, who spends her time shouting or grunting because she is a patient and that’s how ‘ugly’ and mentally ill people behave.Lydia, Alicia’s mean aunt. She is grotesquely ‘fat’ and has lots of cats. She basically just glares, scorns, and spits at people). Paul, Alicia’s cousin, still lives with his mother so he looks like ‘virgin’ and in spite his size he seems ‘stunted’. Kathy and Gabriel arethe antithesis of credible(actors and fashion photographers manage to be self-engrossed and 1 dimensional). We have Gabriel’s brother...who is the typical chip-on-my-shoulder character (he has acne, he is balding, he is just a ‘lawyer’,boohoo). Jean-Felix owns a gallery so he is the embodiment ofsome sort of art-vampire.✎THE NONSENSICAL PLOT✖ Nothing much happens. It’s quite clear thatthe words that exist before the ‘twist’ serve as filler. Theo moans about this and that. That's about 70% of the novel.✖ There area series of stupid thingshappening forno apparent reason.such as Paul hitting Theo with a bat. WHY.✖ The Grove is not a forensic unit. I am sure that Theo should be doing a bit of paperwork to cover his 1 to 1s with Alicia. And everything thathappens in the Grove is extremely unlikely. Rules, guidelines, procedures are flung out of the window.✖ The ‘big twist’is predictable.We know Theo is unreliable.All of his actions towards Alicia, his research and his ‘interviews’ makeno bloody sense. He already knows about her! And unlesshe is incredibly thick, he should do 2+2 and figure out why she isn’t talking. The twist makes his motivations and approach to Alicia completely pointless. Theo hadn’t forgotten what he’d done, and his narrative isn’t in the format of a diary, where he would be deliberately lying and omitting certain things. Why not make this novel into more of a confessional? Or more in the vein ofThe Talented Mr. Ripley,You,Lolita, or evenGentlemen and Players, where we know early on what he has done and we wonder if he will be caught or if he will done something worse.IN CONCLUSIONThe Silent Patientmight notbe the worst novel I’ve read but it’sa badly written, poorly developed book. Worse still,The Silent Patientcomes across as being both pointless and passionless.A ‘twist’ needs—demands—a story. I want to read characters who vaguely resemble or talk like real people. If you want to play with stereotypes (a la Christie) don't make yourcharacters take themselves so seriously.A parody of a certain 'personality' should at least be funny and or amusing.Adding a strong setting and a coherent storyline wouldn’t do any harm either.Overall:The Silent Patientis a messy, flat, painfully dull, 'Hollywood-type' of book.Read more reviews on my blogIf you likedVerity,An Anonymous Girl,The Last Time I Liedor the unintentionally hilariousJane Doe...chances are you will likeThe Silent Patient.