”These letters had been sent from coast to coast looking for someone to open them, and had found no takers. Finally they’d ended with him: with Randolph Erniest Jaffe, a balding nobody with ambitions never spoken and rage not expressed, whose little knife slit them, and little eyes scanned them, and who--sitting at his crossroads--began to see the private face of the nation.There were love-letters, hate-letters, ransom notes, pleadings, sheets on which men had drawn round their hard-ons, valentines of pubic hair, blackmail from wives, journalists, hustlers, lawyer and senators, junk-mail and suicide notes, lost novels, chain letters, resumes, undelivered gifts, rejected gifts, letters sent out in the wilderness like bottles from an island.”Randolph Jaffe is given the dead letter office job because it is considered one of the worst jobs available in the postal service. Jaffe is odd, and needless to say, when someone is odd in our society, people just can’t let them be. His co-workers really don’t like him. His boss loves to make fun of him. This is before social media became the best tool of bullies, but it is amazing the lengths that adults will go to still pick at people they find to be inexplicably unusual, as if they are still walking the hallways of the sixth grade. Naturally, Jaffe is a festering, vibrating, mass of unexploded rage. The dead letter office job gives him some relief from people and puts him on the trail of something hidden from the rest of the world in these lost letters, a true source of limitless power that will give him the means to go postal on the biggest scale imaginable.He discovers a whole ‘nother world.The clues lead Jaffe to New Mexico where he encounters a shoal, a sort of oracle for this other world. He learns of the”mystical dream sea Quiddity and the islands within it known as the Ephemeris. Quiddity, as it turns out, is visible exactly three times to an ordinary human: The first time we ever sleep outside our mother's womb, the first time we sleep beside the one we truly love and the last time we ever sleep before we die.”Jaffe then hires the brilliant, or at least brilliantly stoned, Richard Wesley Fletcher, who believes that what Jaffe knows is true and thinks he can make an elixir that will allow a human to evolve to the point that they can reach Quiddity. In other words, why don’t we change the natural order of things to see what happens.Things get strange.Then things really get wiggy.Fletcher realizes Jaffe’s evil intentions, which sets off an epic battle between the two of them, which is one long standoff of competing energies. They even spawn offspring when four young ladies decide to go skinny dipping above. Little did they know what is rippling in the water beneath them. Yes, ladies, you can get pregnant by some hellish entity just going for a swim. If that isn’t enough to put you off swimming in deep waters seeJaws. Fletcher and Jaffe know the battle will go beyond their life spans, and their hope is that their offspring will continue to wage the war for them.Whenever you start to feel a bit confused with this convoluted and brilliantly conceived plot, keep the following line in mind:”Reason could be cruel; logic could be lunacy.”There are a whole host of characters who get drawn into this battle between Fletcher and Jaffe. Their children are caught up in these events, whether they want to be or not. As the bonds start to break between this other world and what is considered the real world, numerous personalities, from reporters to movie stars to average Joes, are enlisted in this struggle to keep this other world from eating our world. This schism between worlds must be repaired; a finger must be put in the dyke, and above all,Quiddity must be preserved.It reminds me of that great line fromDune...The Spice Must Flow!Needless to say, this plot is massive, and I could spend trillions of pixels trying to explain the complexities, but if you are planning to read this, you may only be confused by my fumblings to explicate it. Clive Barker said this was the most difficult book he ever wrote, and I believe him. This is definitely his attempt to write a fantasy/horror masterpiece, and he very well may have succeeded. The writing isn’t as difficult to follow as some reviewers will tell you, but I do suggest that you stay with it. A long absence between reading jags could create more frustration for you.Palomo Grove, California, is ground zero for this Armageddon, and there is no better person to show up to investigate than Harry D’Amour, the occult private investigator. He only appears in the final pages of the book, but believe me, the unlikely heroes of this story could have used his help from the very beginning. I first met Harry in the short storyThe Last Illusionfrom Barker’s rather brilliant collection of storiesCabal. See my review here:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Harry D’Amour was played by Scott Bakula in the film version, calledThe Lord of Illusions(1995), which I recently found streaming on my new favorite source for strange and forgotten movies, tubitv.com. Unfortunately the streaming version available is the theatrical cut which according to my research left plot holes the size of Mac Trucks so I decided to buy a cheap DVD copy, thank you eBay, of the director’s cut. I gotta say I thought the film was great. Famke Janssen was lovely and reminded me of a young Julia Roberts. Kevin J. O’Connor was terrific, most of you might remember him fromThe Mummy. J. Trevor Edmund nearly stole the show with his androgynous languor. Sheila Tousey was an unexpected surprise. I still have a crush on her from her role inThunderheart. I decided I better line up my ducks on Harry D’Amour because he will have a major role inEverville, which is the sequel toThe Great and Secret Show.I don’t know how this has happened, but I have now been sucked into the world of Clive Barker. Okay, I know how it happens. When a reader searches the mystical corners of the literary world he can sometimes find himself caught up in some nefarious reading experiences. Barker’s world resembles the sea of Quiddity, and the more time I spend there, the more warped mentally and bodily deformed I become. I do eventually recover, but one must pace oneself.This is a sprawling, ambitious, imaginative work that will put your mind through some mental gymnastics, but as the pieces fall into place and you start to understand your way around a bit, you will find the reading experience highly rewarding. The more I read of Clive Barker the more I respect what he is trying to accomplish. A reader can’t just dip her toe into the water and decide if his works are too hot or too cold or just right for her. You must immerse yourself and let Barker unsnap the constrictions on your mind and allow your thoughts to roam free as he influences what you believe to be real and what you could believe to be real.If you wish to see more of my most recent book and movie reviews, visithttp://www.jeffreykeeten.comI also have a Facebook blogger page at:https://www.facebook.com/JeffreyKeetenand an Instagram accounthttps://www.instagram.com/jeffreykeeten/