FNaF franchise took off unexpectedly nearly three years ago now and community has been focusing on the backstory so much that its creator Scott Cawthon started writing some books about it. First one, "The Silver Eyes," was an average book overall, there were several discrepancies between the game lore and it had suffered from moderately unskillful writing and too many and useless characters.Enter now, "The Twisted Ones", the second addition to novel universe of FNaF. Taking off where book one left, this book revolves around one year after the events occurred in first novel. Several murders started to occur and evidence points to new animatronic killers.First book's annoying protagonist Charlie is the star again here, being the daughter of the man who created the animatronics. Most of the useless side characters are absent in this book, only John and Jessica remain as Charlie's friends. This is a positive improvement since too many characters without any notable features made it harder to remember which was which in the first book.The book suffers from the poor storytelling that plagued its predecessor. I had hoped that Cawthon had improved his writing between these two books but I encountered the similar amateur typos, too many repetitive words in a brief amount time and pointless descriptions of the environments and dialogue between the characters still lurking around every page turn.Story is somehow interesting at first but as someone who is in their just 30s, I am genuinely astounded by the stupidity and recklessness of the main protagonist of the series. Charlie is 19 years old in this book yet she acts like an 11 year old most of the time. You can generally see her coming into rash conclusions, doing things out of spite and "ignoring" his star-crossed lover John all the time. Yes, I saw that "ignore" verb so many times in the book that if I had a penny every time Charlie ignored something John said, asked or done, I would have had an overflowing Swiss bank account. Charlie was a pain in the ass in the first book and she continues to be so in the second. And she added stupidity to her other negative feats in this book as a bonus.New hostile animatronics are a bit vague in description. They are non-existent in any of the games as far as I know, since they can devour someone through a gaping maw in their torso, as well as creating illusions to make themselves appear as friendly robots rather than hideous electronic creatures they are. I can't make any positive or negative comments on them, it's Scott's universe and he's free to add whatever he wishes. But the fact that the gap between the games and the novels is getting wider is impossible to ignore.There is no sense in some of the parts of the book, like two teenagers going to the old pizzeria to find Springtrap's body hidden somewhere, but they never bother to tell it to anyone, despite the fact that they know a police officer very well and he knows what happened in there. Hell, they even tell that to their friend John after some time. Can you imagine holding back something like that from a friend who has endeavored everything happened in that pizzeria a year ago? This is again an example of how insufferable and incomprehensible our main protagonist Charlie is. Everybody has to put up with her shit throughout the entire book, like they were doing it before.Relationship between John and Charlie is so crude and out of place that it makes you cringe in your seat while you read. Charlie is an ice queen haunted by her past to the extent that becomes wearisome to the reader and you want to get in the book and shout "get the hell over it" to her face. John has a crush on her for some unknown reason dating back to first book, but he gets nothing back for a good 150 pages of this book, as well as the 300 pages of the first one. Charlie clearly has PTSD which requires some serious medical help as far as I perceived from the book as someone who is in medicine field, yet no one ever implies that she needs treatment. In a realistic approach in human psychiatric disorders, at least her friends should have talked to each other about her rapidly deteriorating mental condition. Her suicide mission was pretty much pointless, her obsession over her late brother whom she has barely known is outright schizophrenic and her last attempt of forced romance with John moments before she was killed by the spring locks is laughable at best.Original animatronics reappear towards the end and they are friendly to the humans, this is understandable if we consider the fact they are possessed by the spirits of the children slain by Springtrap and they rise to combat his creations. But the absence of Yellow Freddy, who is occupied by their best friend Michael's spirit who saved them from their latest encounter with animatronics, is discernable in the final battle. Original animatronics nearly killed all of them in the first book, until Yellow Freddy appeared and somehow persuaded them they are not the enemy and yet they help the teenagers here on their own accord without the guidance of him.And about the ending, it was a really forced cliffhanger. Cliffhangers mean something when they are tied up to a point or expectation. John looking at a glance to the newcomer and gravely stating "that is not Charlie" is added to create some sort of paranormality to the scene but since Springtrap had cheated death twice from the spring locks before their very eyes, I don't understand why John dismissed the chance of that woman being Charlie so easily. Is it because "he loved her so much" that he can immediately understand that newcomer is not Charlie but a twisted version of herself? And also, what was her aunt doing at the end of the book, next to her crushed body in the mascot? Is that family completely paranormal, from father to aunt and daughter? I mean, I like cliffhangers but they have to make some sense. Animatronics haunted by children's spirits is a paranormal event meanwhile creating illusions by tampering with brain's sensory network is somehow possible but most if it is pseudoscience as described in the book. This book struggles to choose between paranormal and pseudoscience all the time and it still had not made its final decision even at the last pages.Overall, this is another addition to ever-growing FNaF lore, if you are interested like me, then you will read this until the end despite the negative aspects I have described above and many more I have forgotten right now. But for someone who does not have a clue what FNaF is, it is just a poorly narrated book which promises nothing but frustration and waste of time.Three stars because I like the lore but if a third one comes and shows no improvement, I will stop being so generous about these reviews.