A short story with a nasty sting that leaves you questioning human nature. I also note now that this is my review #666 (or was before I rewrote it in 2023).It opens idyllically:“The morning of June 27th was clear and sunny, with the fresh warmth of a full-summer day; the flowers were blossoming profusely and the grass was richly green. The people of the village began to gather in the village square…”.It’s the annual public lottery in a small farming community, but there is vague foreshadowing of some darker taboo: the boys are boisterous, the girls reserved, and the men tell jokes without laughing. Further unease comes from the setting being both familiar and non-specific: past or future, USA or elsewhere, and are religion or political regime factors?It's a lottery no one wants to win. What made this especially unsettling is that there is noreasonfor the lottery beyond that of tradition, and a vague link to hopes of a good harvest.“There's always been a lottery.”“Much of the ritual had been forgotten or discarded.”The participants don’t know much about the origins, nor seem to care. It’s universally known, but reluctantly accepted: they’re inured to it. What little challenge there is, is quickly quashed. The power of crowds, consensus, community, or mob?Image:A hand, brandishing a stone(Source)What would you do?We like to think we’re good people, who would only do cruel things in extremis, when there is no alternative. Jackson’s story suggests the threshold may be much lower if the right/wrong environment is set up. This was published shortly after WW2. Perhaps she was wondering how previously ordinary people came to commit atrocities.Quotes•	“The original paraphernalia for the lottery had been lost long ago… There was a story that the present box had been made with some pieces of the box that had preceded it.”•	“‘They do say,’ Mr Adams said to Old Man Warner, who stood next to him, ‘that over in the north village they're talking of giving up the lottery.’Old Man Warner snorted. ‘Pack of crazy fools,’ he said. ‘Listening to the young folks, nothing's good enough for them. Next thing you know, they'll be wanting to go back to living in caves, nobody work any more, live that way for a while.’”•	“All of us took the same chance.” [But random ≠ fair]See also•	Ursula Le Guin’sThe Ones Who Walked Away from Omelas, which I reviewedHERE, also starts idyllically, before revealing something dark. However, their tradition is explicitly faith-based, not mindless application of tradition.•	Kafka's short story,In the Penal Colony, which I reviewedHERE, is told by outsider, observing a strange and disturbing local custom. There is at least a reason, albeit a horribly twisted one.•	I read Ralph Ellison’sA Party Down at the Squarejust last week, and reviewed itHERE. That also has a murderous mob in a town square, but is otherwise very different. That is horrifically targeted (race) whereas this is horrific for its randomness. Ellison was good friends of Jackson and her husband and was godfather to their youngest child. See Harvard Review,HERE.•	Susanne Collins’The Hunger Gameshas a deadly lottery. I’ve read only the first book and not seen the films, but my 2011 review,HERE, remains the one with the most comments and most vigorous debate.•	The box, that probably has no original components, is like Stan Holloway’s “real old original axe” in the poem,Beefeater,HERE.•	Rather different, but a scene fromLife of Brian,HERE.•	Jackson penned an essay about how she wrote the story (all at once, with minimal planning and editing, apparently), submitted it to the New Yorker (the only change they wanted was for the lottery date to match publication date), and how she was inundated with letters, mostly very critical, and often abusive. SeeHERE.Short story clubI reread this as one of the stories inThe Art of the Short Story, by Dana Gioia, from which I'm aiming to read one story a week withThe Short Story Club, starting 2 May 2022.You can read this storyhere.You can join the grouphere.