Unlike the first Clickers book where we had a small town setting(which was appropriate for the Creature Feature films vibe it was going for.), this time around the Clickers have been upgraded to large disaster film status. It works for the most part because we really see how the Clickers could contend against the military and large city type settings. We get a much larger cast this time around, so whileRick Sychekdoes return, he doesn't get as much as attention as some of the newer characters likeColonel Augustus Livingston. In fact Livingston might be the most developed character in this series so far. We do get a lot of politics and black shadowy espionage in this book, it comes off feeling epic like a Godzilla or world disaster movie.This time we get the inclusion of Brian Keene's Labyrinth mythology, with hints of the Black Lodge and Proper Johnson. The real treat in this story for Brian Keene fans is the inclusion ofTony Genova. Up until now he has only been included in short stories like Marriage Causes Cancer in Rats.(As well as some other minor short stories, like the one featuring Ob from the Rising.)For me Tony was plenty of reason to be enthralled in this book, but I understand where some other readers wouldn't share my enthusiasm. However Tony is a important character and so is the existence of the Black Lodge, for those who plan on reading the third book you'll discover why. Regardless if you plan on reading all three books, this one is definitely a must read.Seriously excited to see more Tony in Clickers 3!Out of the whole Clickers trilogy the second books falls as my least favorite of the three.(I don't could Clickers vs Zombies as part of the trilogy because it's missing the main cast.)One of the main reasons for this is that the whole subplot featuringJennifer Wascofell flat to me. I would of liked a bigger pay off with her character's story line. Perhaps if her knowledge of invasive species exploited a weakness within the Dark One's physiology, I would of felt like her main character status wasn't wasted. I understand her knowledge of invasive species was important, I just would of liked more accomplished with the character. The other thing that bothered me was the supporting cast felt bloated at times, I would of liked it if they scaled back on the minor characters just a little. Their came a point where I just stopped caring about minor characters in general because I couldn't' remember all of their names.I have read some other reviews where some over sensitive readers where complaining about "Christianity" being attacked in this book. I must say that people need to calm the heck down and get off their high horse. First off my parents are both Christians and I never once felt like the authors were out of line. Secondly it's a horror story, this is the genre where no "religion", "sex", or "race" is sacred. You will get fanatics of all types in horror fiction, including villains who are Rednecks, Muslim, Conspiracy Theorist, Satanist, Atheists, and yes even Christian. The amount of religious fanaticism in this book was the equivalent to what we see in Stephen King'sThe Mist. So if you are going to judge one then you should definitely judge the other. Just saying. In my opinion I have seen all types of religions go crazy, so it wasn't absurd or offensive to see it happen in a horror novel.Also while The President of The United States is evil in this book, I never once found it offensive either. I wouldn't even be addressing this if I hadn't read some of the other reviews on this website. I will say that it was very original to make the President the bad guy for a change. This isn't a America bashing book either, because in my eyes the good old USA pulls through for each other and I couldn't think of anything more patriotic then that. Regardless of how others feel I had fun with this book and I definitely am very grateful to both Brian Keene andJ.F. Gonzalezfor working together on it.It gets a four out of five stars from me.