I'd give this 3.5 stars. Fun read with overcomable flaws and a plot with many openings to become more complex and interesting as the series continues (though the first book did not achieve complexity in the plot department until the end).Generally, this is a story about two manly men doing manly things with various forms of weaponry and explosives, accompanied by Barbie inspired female characters with republicanesque famly values and morals to go with useless college degrees, as they adventure through Ghoul infested East Texas after the zombi Appocalypse.That said, it was still a fun read for me.I read through reviews on Amazon and Goodreads and I agree with them in principle. Where I see what the reviewers were talking about, I don't see the flaws as agregious as some nor do I see the high points as consistent.The knocks:Mysognoy- Yeah, I get it. The female characters were set up well, but they were never allowed any level of importance in the story that allowed them an equal role. So it may be more of an overall character development issue, that left them with a primary duty of child-care, looking hot and gracious "my-hero" sex in the slow parts. It's not fair to say they were all written as damsels in distress. The 3rd year med student did save one of our heros from certian death in the big climactic battle with quick thinking and a good dive or two. The other most developed female became involved in a fairly interesting plot twist with potential for more development in the next book. It's also not fair to say that the female characters were any more dependent on the two main heroes of the book than the other male characters. I've taken to calling them "cubes (A.K.A. Red Shirts)" or maybe "Spear Catchers (no explanation needed)." So the issue is more a Barney - Sue thing than a mysogony thing. The med-student acting as a doctor could have been made more important to the story as could any of the rescuees. The real truth is that nobody was as brave, strong, smart, or effective as the two main characters.... nobody.Yeah, I did read the part about the survivalist, leacherous rapist thugs in the woods kidnapping or trying to kidnap, the afore mentioned Barbie inspired female characters with useless college degrees, with ill mannered intentions. This is a common meme in post-appocolyptic stories. It is also in keeping with real world horror stories in Cleaveland and upstate New York and other places as recently as last year.Is it a necessary plot device? No, but it's also not something that is necessary to leave out either. It's just a plot construct. When put with the general lack of importance of characters, other than the main two characters, it does give the sense of objectifacation where female characters are concerned. The writer also doesn't seem to believe that men are capable of complex thoughts that do not begin with "she's hot" or that men are capable of setting goals greater than, fight or flight, can I eat it, or Damn, it would be nice to get in bed with...." Survival is the top goal on everybody's mind. And, yes, apparently survival involves sex.The simple fix is to let the female characters have more valueable, roles, traits and skills than just being "the hot ones." This means the writer makes what they do and who they are more valuable to every character in the story. Doctors heal people. Creative thinkers solve problems. Mothers protect and defend as well as care for and nuture and on that note, mothers are some of the most creative problem solvers and survivors on earth. A good idea should be followed through to a helpful conclusion rather than forgotten or left useless. Valuable, lovable people, come in all shapes and sizes, not just Barbie and Rambo-Ken size. If all that is written is an object focus conflict centered on the pretty girl between villains wanting sex on a leash and male heroes to save them then those scenes quickly take over a story. More depth and breadth and these become just some of the bad things that happen in the world that the characters deal with.I'm not talking about making female combat monsters, but hey, maybe the doctor could be a doctor once and a while, or a good idea could be a good idea and game changer? Generally if Will or Danny did not think of it in this story then it didn't count. The general lack of developed supporting cast rendered good supporting characters to cube/red-shirt status if their male and sexy female characters (there were no other female characters) to babysitter and cheer-leader, and sex object status, regardless of their potential value to the plot and story. It might also have helped if the two leading characters were less important or at least not the answer to any and every problem. Come on man, share the love.High-Schoolish romantic relationships--The surest way to devalue a strong female character is to have her fall in love. Surely this can be managed without the calf-eyes and, oh-golly-gosh-gee-whizz, Kate, do you think he likes me?" or having her go from emerging potential supporting cast to damsel in distress whenever the "L-word" is uttered. On the otherside of the coin, doesn't the dating game always feel high-schoolish...with more legal sex and minus the father with the shotgun standing guard at the girls bedroom door?" Why is it that authors write about love as if love makes male characters stronger (more to live and fight for) and female characters weaker (less decisive and able to focus)? Surely somebody can figure out how to balance this scale better...even in post appocolyptic Texas. This is not like real life. In real life Love screws everybody up and makes everybody stronger or weaker at the same time. it's not a gender specific-trait development process.Frat-Boy humor/banter. Yeah, stuped, juvenile, immature and I laughed. I can live with it.The Good StuffAction - yep, lots of battles and running gunfights with all sorts of baddies. Fun read, tests the limits of plausability but within the range of the old "just press the I believe button" mode. They were fun, good not great but they got close and enjoyable.Good imagry of post-appocolyptic Texas. It was likely inspired by images on the news of Iraq after the war and that's fairly artistic writing to connect the two.Good Villains - The writer did a good job of making his own zombie-vampire-ghouls for the story rather than relying on the other vessels in the story. They were like what we know, yet unique in their own way.Huge potential to develop the plot and fix the flaws already mentioned. The problem is at the point I thought the plot was rising to it's potential, the book ended and never made the connection between what should be part of the discussion and what actually was valuable to the plot and story. The clues from early events were not emphisized enough (or were too singular to be emphasized effectively) early in the story. Even the female roles have potential to be fully inflated to the appropriate size. Yes that means some depotentiating with the lead characters some.Good plot twists... I didn't see the end coming as it did.Room to grow. I still want to know how it ends. I'll read the second book.Overall good fun read. The problems, in my opinion are overstated by the books detractors but they are there just as the high points are over emphasized by the books fans, though there are good fun parts to the story. Worth reading, lots of potential that is not completely fulfilled in the first book. Not enough character development but well written enough that they next book can still fill some holes.WarningsGorey violence, sexualy oriented threats and violence towards women by some of the minor villains and scenarios. Nothing that gets into the "gratuitus" or "glorifying" violence range but not suitable for young readers and questionable for sensitive people.