TW: Language, drinking, death of dog, suicide, fat shaming, bullying, blood, violence, gun violence, drugs, divorce, death of spouse, depression, derogatory use of transgender word, ptsd, rape(mention), cancer, Alzheimer's, animal murder, gory scenes*****SPOILERS*****About the book:Meet the residents of the Pine Village Apartment Complex. A young trans woman looking for acceptance. A suicidal middle-aged horror writer. A single mother worried about her child. A Vietnam veteran who feels the world has forgotten him. A pair of hunted would-be criminals. An elderly widow who lives for her cats. Two newlyweds just starting their lives together. And the serial killer known as The Exit.Release Date:December 10th, 2015Genre:HorrorPages:238Rating:⭐What I Liked:1. Enjoyed the writing2. Appreciated all the different pov's [trans, Black, single mom, gay, and older people]What I Didn't Like:1. Unlikeable characters2. Too many plot holes3. Author forgets about the things he wrote about4. RepetitiveOverall Thoughts:Meet the neighbors:Sam (1-D)A "failed" writer who is depressed. He is in debt, divorced twice, put his dog down, and no family that he is close to. He is on the edge of death by suicide.Terri and Caleb (2-D)Mother and son. Caleb is 6 years old with an overactive imagination. They are moving into their new apartment. A naked heavy set man is walking up to them with a machete in his hand.Stephanie [Stephen] [Rose] (3-D)Stephanie is transitioning from Stephan with the hopes of becoming Rose. She hears screaming and calls 911 only to be disconnected after the operator is being attacked.Mrs. Carlucci (4-D)A widower who lives with 4 cats. She owns a gun and decides that she is going to go protect Stephanie.Shaggy and Turo (5-D)Stoners that stole drug money. They've been hiding in their apartment waiting until they can get to their money they stole.Grady Hicks (6-D)A Black war Vietnam vet that suffers from ptsd. He lives in pain and has a daughter. He is 70.The Exit (7-D)Serial killer that has murdered 137 people in the name. He believes he is closing doorways that supernatural beings use.Phil and Beth (8 -D)A newly married couple who live in the apartment who want to hide out instead of facing what's going on outside.Why in the world would you ever approach a naked man who is coming straight at you with a machete and think you should talk to him? Randy is so dumb.I'm not sure why Mrs. Carlucci is even going to help Stephanie since she talks about keeping to yourself but yet saying hi. Honestly I'm confused by her actions.Weird I didn't know that you could get pulled over for no insurance. It's a secondary offense in Pennsylvania so legally they aren't allowed to pull you over for that. Plus I think it's rare that insurance companies report that someone doesn't have insurance to the Dmv. I've never heard of it happening.Who is Adam and where did he come from? Randomly introduced to him in a chapter only for him to die a page into the chapter. Why even name this character?Confused why Beth and Phil left their apartment when no one knew they were in there and they agreed to hunker down and ignore what happened outside. Why would they risk it? Never explained why they went outside. One minute they are in the apartment agreeing to stay put and next they are outside.Wtf a pov from the cats...Let me get this straight; the zombie people hate and are scared of the fire but they were walking around trying to light the building on fire??I was annoyed that they were so easily able to get a hole in a wall faster than it took a room full of people could get through bookshelves and boxes after them. One dude even had a chainsaw.Exit who doesn't have a care in the world for people decides to hole up in the apartment instead of taking off to save himself.Final Thoughts:I thought the way that this book was interesting. Learning about each apartment and the person in it told the story of what was happening in the events of the day. That was clever.Unfortunately by the time you get to them breaking through the 3rd wall it all feels like we've already done this before. Nothing feels fresh or interesting anymore.The ending felt too much like Night of the Living Dead where the police shoot Ben (yes I spoiled it - the movie is 55 years old.) because they think he is a zombie.For me it was difficult to really care about these people. You don't learn much about them just pretty basic stuff. I didn't care that they died. I didn't care about them at all.The biggest hurdle for me in this book was not that naked people were trying to murder people but that a man who had arthritis so bad he couldn't even use a phone, had to use a rotary phone was able to fire a gun and run. Not only that but Mrs. Carlucci is so old that she is hoping for death but she's able to crawl across the floor, throw bombs, and attack these people. I am aware that adrenaline can make a person do things they never normally could do but I just don't buy it that so many people could push their human limits to do things.IG|Blog