~👑Special thanks to Netgalley for the ARC in exchange for an honest review!👑~Are you telling me... this is a book where people die...Because a person is being threatened and if they don't do the right things... people could die?And those people are close to them?*slow vicious smirk*|Rating: 🎮🎮🎮🎮4.2Oh, I knew I would like this.It was a matter of knowing if I would like this in the 'I hate you, I hope you die' way or 'steal me away and make me yours'.And this book fell somewhere in the middle.In the 'what have you done to me, my mouth won't close' section of the fangirling scale.So, the simple and effective gist (that I learned way too late) of enjoying this story is to know that a lot of things will appear silly at times.The whole thing could've been probably resolved with a call, but to be honest, I probably would've sacrificed the entire human society to Tartarus if it ensured my family's safety.Or, in this case, my nonexistent sister's safety.And come on, how could I not like this book? People lives were in peril....That did not come out right, but yeah.My social meter is nonexistent, that's why I sound anti humans at the momentCutting open the flattering crime scene withthe plot, I would really like to point out-WHAT THE HECK HAPPENED.If the book were concentrated on the plot and only the plot, it would be an easy 4-5 stars.The moments where my heart didn't know whether to pound or screech to a halt or perhaps learn to fly without wings really made me love how much I was sweating throughout this story.The game aspect was incredibly well done, it made me invested in what was occurring. How everything was unfolding.To this day, I have no idea how I could've ever guessed theplot twist, because what??? I repeat, WHAT???WHAT?!?I honestly had approximately 15 theories waiting to be provenwrongright, ranging from 'the dog did it' (there was no dog), to the 'neighbor's grandma's sister's cousin's uncle's pigeon did it' (I have a hatred for pigeons for the time being)10% of the book, I was certain that it was all in the MC's head.38%, I was sure the kidnapper was the mom.78%, I was too addicted to the entire thing to truly try to figure out what was happening.And 90% percent? I was getting a headache from the way certain puzzle pieces fit together so flawlessly that the cracks weren't even visible.Thefast pacealso ensured that I would indeed read this book as soon as possible.On page 20 perhaps, the foreboding tension was activated. Running circles around false accusations, unreliable narratives and people that I didn't know whether to trust.That's one of themain aspects I love about well-done thrillers. They made me doubt my judgement, make me question if what's happening is real or not.Theunreliable narratorin this case being the sister of the 'kidnapped' girl. In her place, I would've run. I most likely would've broken down in a puddle of hopeless sobs and high-pitched whines, because when you break down, at least make it seem like an Oscar performance... right?...Anyhow, I can't fault theMCfor making dumb decisions sometimes because me? Pfft, I would've gotten the number wrong on a mathematical riddle and bye bye sister, 'cause my memory is obliterated.Things I adored about her: how she got up in spite of the pain.How she was looking for the better way to get her people ahead.Her sacrifices.How she fought for her family, no matter what.Even if it was against her friends.Even if her friends were suspects as well.Like dang, hold up- can you hear that? Those are my hopes for the genre of thrillers rising from the ashes.Therest of the characterswere good, but when I'm reading--speeding through-- a mystery/game/killerific novel I mainly focus on the acts not the whos if that makes sense. I focus on the action, the possibilities, the guessing (even though 5/5 I am utterly wrong)I know that I didn't get attached to the characters, yet I didn't mind.I even kinda laughed when someone died, but I promise I'm not insaneIt's been sometime since a book has really made me feel a death, so I don't fault this one for not achieving so.Why? Because it accomplished what I was craving. The 'on edge' moments, the situations that made me lean forward in extreme anticipation considering that-t im ewasrunningout.And so it was. The tick-tock, the paranoia-*yeets self into blankets in intense happiness*This book truly satisfied my need for a decent YA thriller, and you have no idea how incredibly happy that makes me.On a closing note, the plot was well though out--a little less informal that I thought it would be---, the characters were nice pawns to be shoved across the board of a deathly escapade, the pace kept me distracted of the woes of life and I loved it.I squealed.I gasped.I slightly yelled at passerby (parents, because I don't go out) in bamboozlement because YO, HOW THE HECK, WHEN THE HECK, WHY DID THIS HAPPEN.Relished their confusion.Just like the book did with me.*cracks knuckles gently across playing board*Now thatthat'sdone...would you like to play a game?....................I don't know what the heck just happened but I know that I liked it, would do it again and that 2022 reading is looking mighty fine right now.......................Holy mother of piña coladas and cheesecakes, I got the ARC request accepted-I-Imma go sob into my very warm pillow.The other side is warm too, DANG IT