Update....So I just realised this book was co-authored by Madeline Sheehan (who is new to me) andClaire C. Riley who wrote Limerence, my all time favourite vampire romance.If I'd known about Ms Riley, I would've been prepared for a shocker but both authors writing and style blended so seamlessly I didn't notice any changes or discrepancies. Clearly these two are a dream team.This story is about pain and loss and the strength, self-knowledge and confidence gained from suffering and coming out of it stronger than ever. It's also about love, courage and loyalty that is Thicker Than Blood. It's the celebration ofLeisel and Evelyn'sawe inspiring friendship. It's an ode to BFFs.“To always having someone to rely on, a person in your corner to fight for you no matter the reason, no matter the cost. To having more than a friend, more than a sister, but a soul mate. To the hope they give us, the strength they provide us, and the unconditional love they empower us with. To best friends.”'Welcome to Hotel de la Zombie'Thicker Thank Blood takes place four years after the world is devastated by infectious outbreak resulting in zombie apocalypse. The infected now roam everywhere and sanctuaries are few and far in-between and people you can trust are rarer still. It's a new world ruled by sadistic men while women are seen as currency, coveted property to be captured, traded, used or abused at will. The new world is paradise for the opportunistic, social outcasts, religious zealots and psychopaths. It’s all about the survival of the fittest and the few people left are led by fear and desperation. The new world brings out the animal in them lurking just beyond the surface.'We're all animals. Always were. The only difference is that we're no longer cages.'When civilization breaks down like this, the innocent suffer and the mad, bad and the ugly rule what's left of the world like little tyrants while the rest, likeEve and Leitry to survive the best way they know how.Leisel and Evelyn are best friends just like their husbands were best friend, but in the last four years they've lost everything they loved; their loving husbands, family, friends and the comfortable and familiar world they took for granted. One thing they still have is each other and their friendship is stronger than ever. These girls will do anything for each other; this is especially true for Eve.'Leisel had known nothing but fear for the past four years, and I would do anything to ensure she'd never have to feel unsafe again.'They are complete opposites but that's what makes their friendship work. Whereas Eve is brave, brash and a 'live for the moment' kind of girl. Lei is timid, thoughtful and cautious. She wears her heart on her sleeve but this world is not forgiving of the softer emotions and that's why Eve is very protective of Lei.“Hurting Leisel was like kicking a blind puppy—no one of sound mind would ever do such a thing.”Lei appears weak and everyone, including Alex (the hot, silent and brooding new guy) want to protect her but from the word go, you'll realise there's more to Lei than meets the eye. This new world brings out the fighter in her, they all end up doing unthinkable things to survive and evolving into something new, something stronger. But there is always a cost.The way Lei, Eve and Alex deal with the changes to their personality and their struggle not to lose their humanity was a perfect blend of angst, humour, action, anger and love. It was well balanced and believable at all times.“We’d all lived through our own horrors, and whether they showed on our skin or not, we all bore scars, didn't we?”I really loved the development of Lei and Alex's relationship. It was beautiful, romantic and emotionally powerful. Individually they were amazing but when they got together, Lei and Alex were truly unforgeable.There was never a boring moment inThicker Than Blood, It started with a bang and I was hooked from page one. I got so deeply attached and invested in the characters survival and that's never a good thing in a horror book. I went into this book not knowing much except that there aretwo best friends stuck in a zombie apocalypse. I should've read the blurb, it would've saved my poor heart from the shock of unexpected deaths and sudden plot twists. I even took a long break from this book because I was afraid of where it was going.I wanted Alex and Eve to survive dammit, and I wanted Eve to find someone who loves her as much as Alex Adores Lei.I guess this book taught me one thing… that I like a little bit of miracle in my horror stories.Ms Sheehan and Ms Riley are a dream team and amazing writers because Thicker Than Blood was a fantastic hard to forget book.The four star rating is in no way a reflection of their writing, it's just that personally, I didn't like how things turned out in the end. Honestly, I'm still processing it. That particular ending left unresolved issues,what is that eagle? Was that scene with Eve an afterlife even? Where is Alex in this afterlife? Eve made a cake for Lei and is waiting for her arrival, does that mean Lei is about to die? What about Lei and that guy in the end and do they get together and become a couple or what? So many questions left unanswered.But after looking for information about the series i found out both authors clearly stated each book in the Thicker Than Blood series is a standalone novel based on the same setting and thatBeneath Blood and Bonewill be about a new characters calledEagle and Autumn. I can’t say I'm not a little bit disappointed but now I'm curious…Could Eagle be the infamous cold-hearted 'E' who did unspeakable things in Thicker Than Blood?I'm now a little bit more prepared for the take-no-prisoner writing style of Ms Sheehan and Ms Riley, so I can't wait to readBeneath Blood and Bone.