I love Alyssa Cole. But I'm a New Yorker and I reserve the right to be persnickety about literary representations of New York. Taking on Brooklyn as your muse is no small thing to commit to, and this particular Brooklyn felt very...off.Earlier this year I read and loved N.K. Jemisin'sThe City We Became.The comparisons betweenWhen No One Is WatchingandThe City We Becameare unavoidable for me because they're so thematically similar, but the latter is executed much more cleverly. Jemisin depicts gentrification as a sinister homogenizing force that steals cultural specificity from white people. That is, when white people align themselves with whiteness, they give up the true parts of their own heritage. They surrender their language, their food, the memory of their ancestors in exchange for the privilege of being considered white in America.When No One Is Watchingbuys into the paradigm that all whiteness (and all Blackness) is the same. The book depicts a Brooklyn oddly demographically scant. There are "Black people," some of whom have their West Indian roots acknowledged but most of whom are just depicted as a reductive group. Then there are "white people," all of whom are clueless (or ruthless), cop-loving transplants from the suburbs. I think one unnamed East Asian person is mentioned one time. She is wealthy but less racist than her white friends. Every person belongs to an easily categorizable race, and their actions can be predicted based on that category. There are no Jewish people. No Hispanic people. No one speaks Haitian Creole or Yiddish or Spanish or Chinese. There's one guy named Abdul who briefly speaks in an unspecified language just called "his own language." This Brooklyn felt underpopulated and barren.It felt like a cop-out to write about New York but then make up a fictional neighborhood for it. People were praising Cole's research, but it felt like she'd created an imaginary neighborhood that's pretty obviously based off of Crown Heights, except her neighborhood has no Orthodox Jews in it. I couldn't not find the implications of that chilling.Small stuff was just...off? The protagonist, Sydney, takes Ubers and not subways, for example. I'm pretty sure Sydney never ventures into another borough, giving the book an oddly claustrophobic feel. The whole book is about gentrification but the protagonist is problematically nativist, reminiscing about the glory days of a perfect Brooklyn that has obviously never existed. I think there are ways to talk about displacement that don't make it sound like you need to live on the same land your family's owned for generations in order to claim a place in the world. It felt like she should have been wearing a Make Brooklyn Great Again hat; she had the same creepy ideology, just dressed up in a slightly different way.At the end shetotes a gun and goes on a killing spree. In the book's final moments she pats her waistband to "make sure [her] Mommy's revolver" is there. It's clear she intends to murder her way out of racism.In this way she doesn't seem to be of New York at all. This is a Brooklyn that is utterly hopeless, entirely without joy. This is a Brooklyn where the only possible future is toting a gun and killing everyone you have an issue with—which, again, is something I'm more likely to associate with people wearing Make America Great Again hats. In my experience most New Yorkers have never even seen a gun, let alone owned one, let aloneusedone. To have our protagonist do all of these things makes it feel like she herself would be more at home where the gentrifiers came from, maybe frequenting a shooting range in Connecticut to practice for when people step onto her property.Cole depended a lot on telling and not showing; she had her protagonist make constant, wild assumptions about people and we needed to believe these assumptions were true in order for the book to have any meaningful context or development.For example, Cole takes the time to put these two white lesbian women in the gentrified neighborhood and have the protagonist criticize them for being too obvious about their queerness. She says, "they seem to have been told all Black people are homophobic, so they go out of their way to normalize their presence." I'm not really sure why this had to be a part of the book. It makes no mention of the fact that same-sex couples are provably, statistically over-policed in New York; queer PDA is still dangerous in the city today. The narrator makes a bunch of assumptions about them, but we're just being told, not shown, and we're supposed to believe it's true. It just felt dangerously like "I don't mind gay people except when they're Too Gay."All of the white people were racist in an easy-to-see, quantifiable way. None of the prejudice was implicit and at no point is the protagonist ever wrong about the white people she interacts with. I think that took out of a lot of potential within the story; Sydney is too good at just nailing people, when in reality one of the most painful things about discrimination is that it often reveals itself in subtle ways from people you thought were your friends.When No One Is Watchinggets compared toGet Out,but one of the genius things aboutGet Outis that the main character, while certainly not being dim, believes initially that his relationship with his girlfriend is genuine.It was also VERY weird that Sydney knew the names of literally every recently arrived gentrifier on her block? There are no strangers in the book, pulling out a lot of potential tension. Part of the point of gentrification is that the people moving into these neighborhoods aren't neighborly and don't want to get to know you. So while the white people are supposed to be menacing, there's this weird integrated neighborhood vibe going on that I've literally never seen in real life Brooklyn.I'm also confused about what year the story takes place in. I assumed it was the present day since the protagonist uses familiar technology and slang still current on Twitter, but in retrospect it seems like a dystopian future Brooklyn where multiculturalism died a long time ago. The protagonist talks to an older neighbor who mentions that there was once a more multicultural Brooklyn where different people coexisted mostly peaceably. She says, "My grandmother used to tell me about her best friend growing up, a Jewish girl." Her...grandmother? So, like, according to this book, the last time multiple cultures and races co-existed in Brooklyn was in the early 1900s? Because that description of Brooklyn literally sounds like 2005. It's true that that Brooklyn is disappearing and tensions are mounting, but to have no acknowledgement that it ever existed in recent history just seems willfully ignorant.As other people have mentioned, the pacing was wild and the characterization was whack. Overall the book's kind of a mess. For better books on New York, I recommend—as mentioned—N.K. Jemisin'sThe City We Becameand Victor LaValle'sThe Changeling.