Sometimes people ask me why I read young adult books. I mean, there's this sense that you read books for children when you're a child and then you progress to middle grade chapter books and young adult and you move on to things from the proper fiction and nonfiction shelves by the time you're out of college. At some point, I know should graduate to staid biographies and home repair manuals and Moby Dick or some shit. But then I read something shelved for adults and I remember why I don't.So many books for adults are depressing as shit.And not just the darkest nights before your highest highs or whatever. Like, irredeemably sad. There's not nearly as much rape in YA.I say that facetiously sometimes, but reallyI can't see how it helped me to have Lisa's character included in this book. There's rape, so much rape, by her family, then the Swiss. Then Zoe judgin' on her for all of it. She cries a lot and gets stuck in stupid situations and then she gets yelled at and then she gets killed. All to... teach Zoe to be more compassionate, let her know she can't save everyone, something or other blah blah. Her one-note characterization as "vulnerable" felt likethe laziest fucking plot device to drag the capable Zoe to her disaster.And can we talk about the therapist/boyfriend? What was that, you said, having our protagonist develop reciprocated feelings for her therapist might strike some people asmajorly squicky? What are they, robots? Everyone will love Nick, even thoughwe don't plan on showing them any love story until the last few chapters.Everyone will love Nick, even thoughhe's made it pretty clear that he wants to fuck her and counsel her simultaneously, a really gross abuse of power. And also this whole I'll make you enjoy hair pulling scene on page 222, which falls like in the middle of her therapy session for maximum creepiness and signs of abuse. I kept expecting the Swiss to somehow be Nick after this scene.Everyone will love Nick, even though it's an outrageously thin plot device to have Zoe walk the ends of the earth and never lose hope becauseshe never opens the letter saying he's dying. Though it doesn't really matter because he'll be alive two chapters later anyways.This is not hope. This is lousy plotting.This is the kind of shit I will put up with on a 60-minute television episode but feel just a little cheated by after investingdaysreading your stupid, depressing book.Like, who among Zoe's friends was gaslighting her so into thinking the appearance of a jar in her apartment was a delusion requiring therapy rather than a very real crime perpetrated by someone creepy and obsessive? I mean, this whole transcontinental love story only happened because Zoe's response to home invasion wasI must be crazy. That's really sad.Speaking of big reveals I feel cheated by:The Swiss is actually a woman!! Oooh, and her overt misogyny is all internalized misogyny -- don't worry, guys, no one can hate a woman as much as she can hate herself...gag.And one thing I never did get: Why should Zoe feel so reluctant tokill the Swiss? From the first pages, he asserts himself as someone willing to kill her or anyone she cares about out of sadistic pleasure. Then he does that. Over and over. He kills her companionsonlyto hurt her. I'm kind of nervous about declaring things moral imperatives, but I think the less moral action would be to refuse to kill him. Zoe's hesitancy to kill the Swiss undoubtedly resulted in his ability to kill more people. You can hardly wait around for a courtroom after the apocalypse. And though I know this book is some sort of meditation on losing your humanity and all that, self-defense is a very human action. The fact that the Swiss survived to taunt her in the last pages was both predictable and surprising in that I didn't expect the author to be so predictably boring.Whew. At some point writing this review, I needed to downgrade my rating to a single star because I realized I didn't really like anything about it. Here are more things I didn't like about it:Things were left (intentionally? stylistically?) vague. Maybe there were more landmarks given and I'm just not observant enough, but it was really weird how I couldn't identify Zoe's hometown. I guess it was to give her an everyman character? For me, it just contributed to the genericness surrounding everything and made me care less.Who's the war with? Why again? What was with this climate stuff and how was it related to the jar? And what was Pope on about anyways? Did his business plan start and end with "do evil shit"?I didn't like the main time jumping narrative conceit, that we're following Zoe's story froma midpoint and the beginning, her accounts working their way towards each other to form a cohesive whole. I wasn't emotionally invested in the characters because I didn't have their backstories. By the time I got them, I didn't like the characters enough anymore to care. Sometimes I didn't want to invest in the characters because they were only thereto be killed abruptly by the Swiss or Pope or sometimes the disease or suicide - for fun!I thought there were just too many idiotic deus ex machina moments needed to string the plot together anyways.I didn't love the metaphor heaviness. Descriptions that were supposed to be lyrical felt really cliched. Let's end with my least favorite:Hopeis a four-letter word rotting in antique dictionaries betweenhopandhopeless.