an editor! an editor! my kingdom for a f*cking editor!(no kingdoms were harmed in the making of this review)˚✩ ⋆｡˚ ✩i am what some sexist pigs would call a basic b*tch. if you give me a tall, dark-haired, sarcastic, morally-grey guy in a romantasy that combines some of my favourite books and tropes -whilst still keeping some sense of originality, i'll be content.this book had all of that. (well, the tall-dark-haired-mmc-in-a-romantasy part)excluding the originality. (and the morally-grey part but i’ll get to that)lauren said powerless was “if the child of the hunger games and red queen didn't look anything like its parents.”…see, if that were true, then this review wouldn’t exist.(and i know i’m the myopic b*itch of the prime meridian, but this was exactly like it’s parents, as well shatter me and the selection)in fact, i was so angry about it, that i made a whole list. and then other people helped me add more to the list, and then, i realised that this wasn’t really an unpopular opinion at all.but before i get into all the ways this book was unoriginal, i’m going to criticise everything else. and if you don’t want to read about that,then scroll away.do not throw a tantrum in the comment section because someone expressed their criticisms about a book that you enjoyed. it’s incredibly immature, and quite franklyhilariousstupid because you’re wasting your time writing a comment that i’m just going to deleteafter screenshotting it and sending it on the group chat.anyway, let’s talk about something that actually wasn’t criticised that much: the writing.for a debut novel, it wasn’t that bad. for a book hyped up to the point where it could be mistaken as the greatest literary masterpiece this generation could ever bear witness to, it was trash.it read like an unedited draft that was both half-finished and yet too long at the same time, with the typos only making it worse. every sentence was so long-winded with synonyms upon synonyms being thrown into one sentence so whilst it might sound like this deeply thought-out didactic monologue about how inflation has affected the economy to the point that shakespeare's sonnets are no longer analysed correctly, it’s really just a horny teenage boy trying to sound edgy.and serious question: have recent authors heard of show not tell? i am not an idiot incapable of coming to my own conclusions, thank you very much. i don’t need to be told about just how morally questionable princekrabskai is, when i should just be able toinferfrom what the authorimplies. except the author didn't imply anything, for f*ck's sake this dude barely killed anyone.on top of that, the sheer amount of times i read “blue eyes”, “smoky eyes”, “ocean eyes” was enough to put me off reading forever. billie eilish is crying through her “aquamarine orbs” right now. and the amount of times these characters were huffing and puffing - for the love of all that is holy, use!!an!!inhaler!! someone’s lips were always twitching into a smile, or someone was snorting/ chuckling/ blinking/ eyeing something or someone, or paedyn was being called “vicious little thing” by kai - which only succeeded in me receiving fourth wing flashbacks. kai was always flicking paedyn’s nose for no given reason, and one or the other was constantly in a “throng of people”. plus, the inner monologues were also the most repetitive things i have ever read which really helped make the book incredibly long and boring, with the pacing losing to a snail in a 500m run. it’s filled with so much banter and such eye-rolling dialogue that after a certain point, you begin to wonder how on earth the mcs would cope without hearing themselves speak, as well as so many trope-centred and pointless scenes.if you don’t believe me yet, screw you and read this list of tropes:knife/dagger/arrow to the throat (every other page), enemies to lovers (not on a single page), insta lust, slow burn, who did this to you, she's so smol, forbidden romance, cleaning each other’s wounds, comforting after a nightmare, the most unnecessary love triangle (only one love interest has a pov), some stupid trials that have no history and don’t even make sense, and the street thief trope (cue the eyeroll - i’m probably an outlier on this one, but i just hate how much the street thief trope has been overused. there was no way paedyn would have survived a day on the streets with the amount of stupid sh*t that she pulled. did no one notice her wonderfully-amazing-most-gorgeous-beautiful-stunning-oh-so-rare-never-seen-before hair colour while she was off pickpocketing the rich? i’m very sure no one did, seeing as it wasn’t mentioned on every.other.page.)now it's time for more stupid things.. so many stupid things. so many. and i’ve actually missed a lot so if you can remember anything i’m missing please let me know <3➳ a trained soldier is dancing in the middle of a deathly arena because he likes a girl - mhm wow what a great idea, it's totally not going to get your dumb ass killed. aaand now they’re playing thumb war. sorry are we sure this dude is the future enforcer?➳“what i should have done was laugh in his face before making him go down the staircase first, but i’ve thrown caution to the wind and hastily replaced it with curiosity.”yeahhh great idea, go down a dark, damp, dank, dirty, dusty, secret stairway with a guy you're not even sure you should trust. greaaat idea!!➳“it’s really quite simple,” calum says. “the majority of us will finally all gather together, and we’ll show the people of ilya who we are and what we have to say. show them that we are not a threat while also reminding them of who they have been killing for decades. the king is going to have to either admit his lies about the ordinaries or simply give us our freedom. and you are going to help us do it.”ahhh yess so simple - it totally won't lead to a bunch of deaths, lies, revelations,andanother book.➳“i can practically hear sadie blink behind me. she’s clearly stunned by his lack of concern, especially after seeing the two of us dancing together only minutes ago. i would be stunned myself if i wasn’t so used to seeing his masks—if i didn’t recognize the cold one he’s just slipped on.”every.romantasy.ever becauseGOD FORBID A MAN SHOW HIS FEELINGS➳“yes, we are opponents. yes, i am the future enforcer. yes, I’m a killer that has no right to want to keep her. but there is something else, something that has her refusing to admit this confusing connection we share.”wannabe mafia lord who?➳“something begins burning inside of me, but I ignore it, not bothering to acknowledge the jealousy painting me Ilya’s kingdom color.”i- ..no comment➳ oh, but little miss paedyn gray over here was no better. every part about her needed a special mention (or two). even her ass!“as soon as my ass got numb from sitting on that bloody stump, i stood and paced circles around our camp before splashing cold water from the creek on my face and body. then my ass got cold, and i moved next to the fire to lie down on the hard ground i’m so familiar with.”narcissism who?? this was my daily reminder as to why fictional ya books don’t include the part where they have to deal with bodily functions out in the wild.➳ and in regards to the trials aspect,it had no real point.our only explanation was that the elites were being killed off in an arena to display their oh-so-original powers despite us constantly being that the elites' lives were more valuable. what the f*ck?? someone introduce this author to world-building immediately. it would have been much more understandable if it were all the ordinaries to battle to the death, (despite this already drawing a lot from the hunger games) and then you get your one oh-so-precious girl who goes through a makeover, has two guys lusting after her yada yada yada [insert all your favourite 2010 dystopian references here]. i honestly wouldn’t have even minded it, and i would have eaten it up immediately.➳ if anyone is interested in more of my points, i wrote a very long paragraph in message 192 on page 4 of the comments section below. it's also one of the many pages where you can find me breaking my promise to myself to not respond to idiots on the internetmoving on, let’s go back to paedyn seeing as my love for her runs so deep!she’s katniss’s not-like-other-girls cousin who decides to insult the f*ck out of you the minute you’re stood in a 2-mile radius to any guy. i wanted to claw her eyes out when she began with her “play the part sh*t” - which i’m pretty sure was ripping off the selection, which starred our just as talented, just as flawless america singer!, who by the way is a singer. from the dollar tree.ANYWAY, according to this very unbiased book, miss paypal over here had exactly 0 flaws. her only weakness was her infinite love for others, which was clearly evidenced when her seamstress friend is introduced yet barely ever mentioned. when our “darling” pae finally realises that she forgot about her after she was whisked away to the palace to become a princess overnight, she has the audacity to ignore her the entire time because she's too busy fawning over prince kahoot. *sigh* don’t you just love our 2012 wattpad heroine!now for prince krabs! yay! honestly he was the funniest character in the bookby far. his lines weren’t just cheesy and cringey, they were downright stupid too! he really is the whole package *swoons*he was as bland as unseasoned chicken. and annoying. very annoying. the only thing he ever managed to kill was my sanity. he’s also managed to ruin the word “darling” for me forever, which is yk, great. morally-grey my ass, he's a walmart kaz (insulting to kaz but still). he has no true redeeming qualities, and for that reason i quite frankly believe that him and pea-brain really deserve each other!(iwasgoing to do a section on the side-characters, but considering the amount of brain cells i have already lost just by recounting the so-called “personalities” of the two love-birds above, i don’t think that will be the best thing to do right now. however, when i figure out how to regenerate my axons and dendrites, i will be back.)˚✩ ⋆｡˚ ✩after this rather long paragraph ends, there will be tons of spoilers for the selection series (which i don’t recommend reading), the red queen (didn’t love it, didn’t hate it, just indifferent), the hunger games (if you haven’t read this yet, then what the hell are you doing with your life?), and a few mentions of the shatter me series (which is regarded by some as the greatest piece of literature and by others - me - as the greatest piece of dog sh*t that was dropped into this world), the darkest mind series (i’ve never read it), and the jasad heir (i enjoyed it). if you don’t want to be spoiled (although not all the similarities are spoilers, i just couldn't be asked to mark the ones that are) then you can skip to the bottom of this review where you will see a funny gif i found that pretty much sums up my personal experience with powerless.update:there is now a bonus section at the end (before the funny gif) with books that are similar/give the same vibes as powerless. note: i have not read all of these so please don't kill me if i'm wrong about any. if you have any info you want me to add then leave me a comment/dmyes, i realise that i have missed out on so many herethe selection:➳illéailya➳ a girl from the slums and from an undesirable position in society that rose up in the ranks➳ our fmc has different colour dress to everyone else➳ all the scenes where they're eating food➳ the queen likes the dancing in the balls➳ the balls➳ the safe room stuff that i’m not asked to go into detail about➳ the girl on girl hate - it’s 2024 let’s please rid ourselves of this internalised misogyny➳ dad isa southern rebela resistance leader➳ there was a big explosion during the important ball/dance/gathering➳ the dumbest love triangle everthe red queen:➳ a kingdom divided into two - the ordinaires and the elites vs the reds and the silvers➳ the elemental powers➳ the silent stone➳ silver hair➳ forced to be a thief➳ unknowingly steals from a prince➳ falls in love with him➳ a love triangle with two brothers➳ the teaching how to dance with one brother➳ the other brother taking her to the garden➳ thesisterbest friend sewed clothes and she was tortured and killed➳ thescarlett guardresistance➳ the big plot twist at the end➳ there was a big explosion during the important ball/dance/gatheringthe hunger games:➳ loss of a father➳ father teaching the daughter archery➳ the daughter being skilled at archery➳ fmc has a makeover➳ what’s your favourite colour - because why not copy+paste lines of dialogue into your book and pass it off as your own?➳ partners in the arena➳ an arena➳ the leaders making children fight to the death➳ someone we liked dies tragically in the arena - who also had to be a brown girl with curly hair➳ someone places flowers on their grave➳ they watch the highlights of the arena, with the upper class enjoying watching teenagers kill each other➳ the highlights are filmed in an odd way➳ the host of the interview whatever has a “unique” appearance➳ the screenings of the arena are shown with all the romance stuff and this is just oh so shocking to everyone➳ comforting the other after a nightmare➳ there are silver parachutes with gifts from sponsors➳ everyone dying at the end of one of the trials - the same thing towards/at the end of the first book➳ the mutts scene towards the end is similar to the wolf scene➳ a love triangle involving one blonde golden retriever and one brunette black cat - my deepest apologies to all the cats and dogs out there, you didn’t deserve to be compared to these pieces of sh*tsimilarities to other books + bonus section:➳ shatter me - aaron warner's “love” is changed to “darling” + kai's power is similar to that of a character in the series➳ the darkest minds - the virus that leaves people with special abilities + there are different categories of abilities and the deadliest and most dangerous of them are eliminated➳ the jasad heir - the three trials aspect although it was done so much more originally (i would absolutely recommend reading this if purposely unlikeable fmcs are your thing but many have pointed out that it does feel like a colonial romance which some may feel uncomfortable with)➳ a court of mist and fury - the whole schtick about kai having masks + specific moments + “darling”➳ fourth wing - the vibes of the plot➳ defy the night - something about the elites (?)➳ the serpent and the wings of night➳ renegades➳ crystal bloom➳ kindred’s cursea two years later edit:hi! i am in fact the intended audience for this book. bye!