I wish Robin Hobb would write more books like this. Well, I wish she would write more books in general, which speaks volumes considering how many she has already written. Her prose is simply excellent; it is so easily to become lost in it. This book tells the tale of a legend that is often referred to in the Farseer books. So, it’s great to see the story in depth, as it adds a sense of history to her already remarkable novels.An excellent backstoryThe Witted folk often claim to have a kinship with the Farseer line because they believe that the Farseers are descended from their own folk. Their suggestion obviously bares merit because FitzChivallry himself is witted, though this may have come from his mother’s blood line. Either way there is some of the Farseer blood with the hated wit magic. The first part of the story is, essentially, a love story in which a young Farseer Princess falls in love with a Witted stable boy. The story is one of love that could never last because a Princess could never marry someone so below her station. The woe begotten tale unfolds, and the Princess is left with a royal bastard; thus, the wit enters the Farseer blood line.The second part of the story follows a battle of succession. The bastard boy is first in line, but he has the hated wit magic. His conception out of wedlock, and of low lineage, results in the Dukes of the Six Duchies supporting a different claimant: Canny Farseer. If that wasn’t enough reason for the two rival claimants fight they both then fall for the same woman. What unfolds is a somewhat predictable story that ended in bloodshed. I think the first part of the story was much better, and without it, the second wouldn’t have been quite as good. Together though, they provide an intriguing backstory to the Farseer lineage.A great editionVery few authors can write one hundred and fifty pages of prose, and then sell it for £14.99 then at the same time have the reader feel like its money well spent. Indeed, the royal Farseer line has a darker history than I ever imagined. This will be appreciated most by those that have read the The Tawny Man Trilogy and The Farseer Trilogy because the reader will begin to see where the discrimination for the witted folk began. I personally recommend reading it afterFool’s Errand. It adds an excellent backstory to her world and specifically to that book in particular. I wish she would write more tales like this.The book itself looks very good. There are some images that accompany the story, which really help to evoke the nature of Robin Hobb’s writing style. I think the art work is great; it is the same as that on the covers of her books in the U.K. I love the designs. Overall, I really enjoyed reading this, but I found the ending of the overall tale a little predictable. Also because of the short nature of the tale there wasn’t much room for motional investment, which for me is the strongest aspect of her writing. So without it, it felt a little flat.A Witted 3.5 stars