Re-read on audio and just as awesome the second time! Vin is still my hero!❤️Holy son of a biscuit eater!!! THIS BOOK! I loved it, loved it, loved it! Sanderson tackled most of my feels in this book and YES I cried here and there but most of it was happy crying. My dog even looked at me like I was crazy when I was laughing and crying and yelling YES at certain parts.Vin landed softly on the damp cobblestones, watching as the mists began to form around her. They puffed into existence as darkness fell, growing like tangles of translucent vines, twisting and wrapping around one another.The great city of Luthadel was still. Even now, a year after the Lord Ruler's death and the rise of Elend's new free government, the common people stayed in their homes at night. They feared the mists, a tradition that went far deeper than the Lord Ruler's laws.Vin slipped forward quietly, senses alert. Inside herself, as always, she burned tin and pewter. Tin enhanced her senses, making it easier for her to see in the night. Pewter made her body stronger, made her lighter on her feet. These, along with copper--which had the power to hide her use of Allomancy from others who were burning bronze--were metals she left on almost all the time.Some called her paranoid. She thought herself prepared. Either way, the habit had saved her life on numerous occasions.I love Vin and she grew so much in this book. She had a very bad life growing up and Kelsier (sob) saved her from all of that and showed her how to be what she is: A Mistborn. (An Allomancer who can burn all of the Allomantic medals) and she became the most powerful Mistborn around.Elend is the King but he wasn't doing such a great job. He needed to be whipped into shape. I think Tindwyl (a Keeper from Terris) did a wonderful job and getting Elend where he needed to be. I feel Elend figured the rest out on his own and I began to love his character later on in the book.Tindwyl nodded. "Sazed also mentioned your humility. It could be an asset-assuming you don't let it get in the way. Now, I believe that your Mistborn has returned."Elend turned toward the side window. The shutter swung open, allowing mist to begin streaming into the room and revealing a crouching, cloaked form."How did you know I was here?" Vin asked quietly.Tindwyl smiled--the first such expression Elend had seen on her face. "Sazed mentioned you as well, child. You and I should speak soon in private, I think."Vin slipped into the room, drawing mist in behind her, then closed the shutter. She didn't bother to hide her hostility or mistrust as she put herself between Elend adn Tindwyl."Why are you here?" Vin demanded.Tindwyl smiled again. "It took your king there several minutes to get to that question, and here you ask it after a few bare moments. You are an interesting couple, I think."Vin's eyes narrowed."Regardless, I should withdraw," Tindwyl said. "We shall speak again, I assume, Your Majesty?""Yes, of course." Elend said. "Um. . . is there anything I should begin practicing?""Yes," Tindwyl said. "Stop saying um.""Right."Tindwyl had a lot of work to get the king where he needed to be but she did well.So many of the characters I loved.VinElendSazedOreSeurHamDocksonClubsSpookBreezeTindwylAllrianneSome of them didn't make it in the battles and that is sad but that is the way of the world.I also really liked Zane but . . . .*I loved the characters, I loved the book, I loved everything about it but a few things.*NOW ON TO THE SPOILER PORTION OF THIS BOOK. DO NOT READ BELOW THIS LINE IF YOU HAVEN'T READ THE BOOK!Okay lets get down to the nitty gritty. I'm going to be all over the place with this so just bear with me.Zane is the other mistborn that would visit with Vin and sometimes fight with her. We find out that he is Elends half-brother. I really liked him and wanted him to be good but he had some major issues cause by their father that is/was a complete jerk. I really hated to see him die but it had to happen. I certainly didn't see it coming.Elend's father along with two other army's are parked outside the city, they all want to take over Luthadell so they can all have the atium. It's a big time metal that lets mistborns see into others futures and when they are burning it they normally can't be killed. Until Vin proved that wrong!When Vin killed Straff (Elend and Zane's father) I was freaking out of my mind with joy! I didn't like what happened to the horse but still. It was freaking awesome that she finally took his sorry arse out!Another camp had king Cett in it and he was just stupid, that's all I got. But his daughter, Allrianne was pretty cool. I liked her.The last camp had an old friend of Elend as the leader and he had these monster things called Koloss, they were these blue giant things and they were not stable at all. They killed each other as much as they killed other people. He controlled them through money and luck, in the beginning anyway.Most of the beginning of the book is learning about Vin and Elend, trying to get them where they need to be, learning things from Sazed and Tindwyl, figuring out how to defeat the armies and not knowing where the atium was in the city. They never did find it so it seemed like they were all going to get killed for nothing.Sazed really surprised me. He was a Keeper but had some issues back home, but he still did his work. But he freaking used all kinds of powers and turned into Hulk Sazed when it was time to fight the Koloss! He was freaking amaze balls! He had sent Vin, Elend and Spook away on a wild goose chase for the well of ascension and Vin had to rush back (pun intended) to help everyone. The town was going to die without her. She was so mad but she understood what Sazed was trying to do. She got there in the nick of time!The koloss loomed over Sazed, who still lay half sprawled in the bloody slush, and raised its sword. Over the creature's shoulder, Sazed could see the red sun hanging just above the top of the wall. He focused on that, rather than on the falling sword. He could see the rays of sunlight, like . . . shards of glass in the sky.The sunlight seemed to sparkle, twinkling, coming for him. As if the sun itself were welcoming him. Reaching down to accept his spirit.And so, I die . . .A twinkling droplet of light sparkled in the beam of sunlight, then hit the koloss directly in the back of the skull. The creature grunted, stiffening, dropping it's sword. It collapsed to the side, and Sazed lay, stupefied, on the ground for a moment. Then he looked up at the top of the wall.A small figure stood silhouetted by the sun. Black before the red light, a cloak flapped gently on her back. Sazed blinked. The bit of sparkling light he'd seen. . . it had been a coin. The koloss before him was dead.Vin had returnedJust typing that scene out gave me chills once again and made me tear up in joy! Vin is bad to the damn bone, there is no doubt about that. At one point after killing hundreds of the monsters, Vin figured out how to control them so that was even more awesome!I was really sad for Sazed for losing Tindwyl, they had finally admitted their love for each other in a sense and it was so sad to see him go through his grief.I also hated that Clubs and Dockson had to die but this is what happens. I dread to see how else will die in the next book =(Oh, I forgot to mention how much I loved OreSeur (Vin's Kandra). Kelsier had given him to her when he died and the kandra have contracts to do what you say. They are slaves basically. They take on forms of humans or animals by eating their bones after they are already dead. They don't kill people themselves. Vin at one point turned OreSeur into a wolfhound. So awesome, but he wasn't happy about being a dog. But he finally got used to it. But then I find out that OreSeur was killed and replaced with Zane's kandra (TenSoon) to spy on Vin. I was crushed, but it turned out that TenSoon wasn't so bad. There is a lot more to it but you can read about it.Vin finds the well of ascension in the town. It calls to her. She's not supposed to be there. Sazed tries to stop her but doesn't quite make it. She goes into the well to save Elend's life (her husband, yeah they got married in a quick little ceremony with Sazed while was stitching her up) and she let loose something that wasn't supposed to be let loose on the world. But she saved Elend and turned him into a freaking Mistborn. I mean wow. I can only imagine what's going to happen in the next book!I'm going to shut up now as I have left a long rambling review of this book. It just thrilled me that much!Thank you Brandon Sanderson for these characters I love so much!MY BLOG:Melissa Martin's Reading List