*2021 edit at the bottom*Lets see if I can get this link to work.(Me reading a page to the girls. Is there a better testimonial?)OK!!! HERE WE GO!!!Eleanor: Dad, can we say how many stars to give it yet?Dad: Gwen, what do you think? Are you ready? Poppy, are you ready?Gwen: *Turns to Poppy* Say YES!!!Poppy: yes.Gwen: Say yes LOUD!!!Poppy: YEEESSSS!!!Dad: How many stars?Everyone: FIIIIIIIVE!!!!! *Well, technically, Poppy only yelled out unintelligible noises sounding slightly like "five."*Eleanor: Poppy, happy first review!Poppy: Slaw.Eleanor: Dad... you'll have to write what Poppy said, and it's her first review... and she'll say, "hleh hleh hleh HLEH!" and you'll have to put that in the review... and nobody will know what she means...Dad: Well, your first couple reviews were like that...El: And nobody understood what I said?Dad: We'll have to go back and read them to see. ...This is pretty hard... reviewing with 3 little girls.Gwen: Yeah. It's hard for me too.*All the girls are humming different tunes*Dad: So, what did you guys think? Lets start with Gwen.El: Gwen then me, then Poppy?Gwen: It was GOOOD! It was REALLY GOOD! And funny too!Poppy: Funny?Gwen: Yeah! Funny.Poppy: Funny.Gwen: HEEEEEEEYYYYYYYYY! THIS WORD IS "FUNNY" RIGHT HERE!!!!! *Gwen just pointed to the word "funny" in the review. She's in Kindergarten right now. She's learned a lot in a little time.*Gwen: It was funny when it said the hippo's name was Boo Boo Butt.El: I was like... 'did the book really say that?'Dad: El, what did you think about the book?El: I thought it was so good, and so funny! *El has just listed off about a dozen things starting with, "I liked it when... and I liked it when..." But I can't even begin to keep up... she's STILL listing things. ...Still going...Dad: Poppy, what did you like?Poppy: Uhhhhmmmmm... it deeee... *sighs*Gwennie: *whispering to Poppy* Say boo boo butt loud. Poppy... say boo boo butt loud.Poppy: Poo Poo?Gwennie: Poppy likes the part where they say Boo Boo Butt.Eleanor: I know how to spell Eleanor backwards, R.O.N.A.E.L.E. Ronaeleh.*They're spelling lots of things backwards right now...*Dad: Hey, can we get back to the review now?All: Yep! YEAH, yeah, yeah yeah yeah!Gwen: *Waves at computer* HI COMPUTER!Dad: Anything else to say about the book?*Lots of fighting over who's turn it is to speak*El: I liked it at the beginning when it said, "Oh no..." I was like... did the bookreallysay it, or is that just you saying it?Dad: I think that's what the book was trying to do. To make it look like I didn't want to read the book... But did I want to read the book?El: YES!!! YOU DID!!!!Dad: Ready to read the review?El: YEP!Gwen: YEP!Poppy: *She's pretending to be asleep in my arms like a baby. For real though, she's tired.*Dad: Lets go read it!*2021 Edit*Eleanor came into the room yesterday and said, "Dad, can I show you something?"Dad: YesEleanor: *Pulls out recorder - which she uses as kindof an 'audio-photo-album'* Presses play. It's me reading The Book with No Pictures to the three of them. They are Cracking. Up. There's a lot of laughter, some reading out loud. Interruptions with giggles. There's a baby-doll of Eleanor's - which I remember - that she's also making laugh along with us. I can't get over how young they all sound. The story ends, and Eleanor has a big grin on her face.*Dad: That was great. I can't believe how young you all sound.*We talk about the book some.* *Eleanor keeps grinning and sitting there.*Eleanor: And now you can add that to your 2021 read shelf as well. ONE BOOK CLOSER TO YOUR READING GOAL!!!*(She had heard that Poppyhad given me a children's book- young, young children's book - to help me on my way.)*Dad: (laughing): Well... I have *SOME* standards. And I've already read it.Eleanor: Well. We just read it again. And I think you should add it.Dad: (Today, to myself): Looks like I don't have any reading standards after all. And hey: A book is a book, right? (And for real, it was really, really sweet to listen to.) (AND, it's nice to know that my family is looking out for me).