"Camilla?” She paused on the threshold, glancing back.“If you run, I will chase you.”Spice:🌶️🌶️🌶️I am willing to fight anyone who dares to badmouth this series. I probably won't do much damage. I have no physical strength whatsoever, but I will fight nonetheless. It might have taken me a little while longer to finish it because life sucks for grown-ups and I didn't sign up for this, but I was still completely hooked on this book. I couldn't do much else during my free time. The shocking moments alone were enough to leave me speechless. Not to mention the level of intelligence behind this dangerous game Envy and Camilla are playing, the stakes for the parties involved, especially the demon prince, and the complications that constantly arise. I particularly enjoyed how much more of this world is explored. Maniscalco took the opportunity to explore different fantasy species with this book and it is always the best way to provide exposition. I can't wait to see what other creatures Maniscalco focuses on in her next books.Moreover, Camilla and Envy are fantastic. They are such complex characters with their own traumatic backstories and dark secrets. It might be a cliché to most, but I love how vulnerable they secretly are while showing a tough exterior, especially Envy. I mean, he is a demon prince but he likes painting, and his chest tightened when Emilia made him canolli, but he also tricks and murders people without an ounce of guilt. How cute is that? As for Camilla, she is a cinnamon who hates her solitude, but could also tease you endlessly and fuck your brains out. In other words, they are perfect.In addition, their relationship is positively insane. Not only is their chemistry off the charts, but their dynamic is incredibly intense as well. They have a hard time trusting each other fully, even though they can't help but be vulnerable together at times. Regardless, the sexual tension between them is so thick it couldn't even be cut with a knife, and the way they tease each other so mercilessly is as frustrating as it is entertaining. Also, they are so obviously enamored with each other, even though they keep denying it, that every single person who encounters them can tell immediately. Envy's brothers in particular have the most fun watching them.Lastly, reading this book reminded me just how charming and wonderful the Princes of Hell are. They are as funny as they are intense, they love messing with each other, and even though they fight and argue a lot, they clearly care for one another. Basically, they're siblings, but whose main form of fighting is stabbing. I love them all, but my favorite one has to be Sloth. He reads! He has reading glasses that he keeps around his neck with a chain, he's thick as fuck, and has little interest in debauchery (at least public one, apparently), and his House mostly consists of books. I have never hated my reality more. It is so unfair thatmendemons like him don't exist. I would give anything to have Kerri Maniscalco write me as his love interest. Wishful thinking, right? However, from the way this book wraps up, it seems like Pride's story is the next to come. Not that I mind in the slightest. On the contrary, I can't wait to finally read his and Lucia's story. I love it when the love interests already have a past. Additionally, even though Wrath and Emilia are secondary characters now, their presence in the book, minimal as it is, is a gift. Especially since any mention of them mostly consists of their kinky sexual escapades. I couldn't ask for anything more.Throne of the Fallen B&N Bonus Content:There was no way in hell I wouldn't track down this bonus content by any means necessary. Shipping restrictions will not stand in the way of me reading Wrath and Emilia's kinky sexcapades from Wrath's point of view. I will find a way. Thankfully, there's always a good person who takes pictures of their copy's bonus scenes and posts them online for us unfortunate souls. They are the real heroes. I am also excited to try Envy's cocktail recipe but it is admittedly overshadowed by Wrath and Emilia.Envy mentioned in the book that the King and Queen of Hell were getting into some really freaky stuff together, but it wasn't enough to prepare me for what I read. To be fair, it is very mild compared to other spicy content in modern literature. Nonetheless, those two have some interesting uses for an alcove that has been converted into a red room, chains for obvious reasons, and...a certain House Dagger. Yes, it is used exactly the way you think it is and I will never see a House Dagger the same way again. On the contrary, I expect it to be used the same way again soon. Where was this kind of behaviour in theKingdom of the Wickedseries? Why did we not get a glimpse of it until now? The other problem here is that the chapter is too damn short. You can't just write a scene with two ridiculously hot characters doing some ridiculously hot stuff and end it in five pages. It's not enough! Kerri Maniscalco is truly a mean tease. It's like she wants us to constantly be sexually frustrated.Oh, yes! Envy's cocktail looks fun too! 😇