4.5/5 starsArtemisia is a young woman whose hands are covered in scars. She lives with the Gray Sisters, devotees to the goddess named the Gray Lady, living day by day the tasks of a novice. Like all the Gray Sisters, she possesses the sight, the ability to see the numerous types of undead spirits. But then a confessor named Leandor comes to the convent, searching for a very specific girl. Aretmisia turns out to be that girl and against her will, Leandor tries to take her away. An attack by soldiers possessed by spirits throws a wrench into everyone's plans. During the attack, Artemisia travels to the convent's crypt to keep the relic of Saint Eugenia safe--but something else goes wrong. The revenant, an all-powerful undead spirit confined to the relic takes possession of Artemisia but is able to defeat the possessed soldiers. From there, Artemisia is thrown into a world of even more spirits, wondering what the Lady has in store for her, and a volatile relationship with the revenant. She must defeat the amassing undead before she exhausts herself to death, or something worse happens.Inspired by one of my favorite subject matters, medieval nuns, and containing echoes ofThe Locked Tombseries,Vespertineis a refreshing drop in the otherwise predictable and unremarkable lake of YA fantasy. There is so much to love here from the prose, to Artemisia's character arc, and to how Margaret Rogerson handles certain themes. Rogerson has really done her research here regarding nuns and the lives and activities of medieval women saints and handles the subject matter seriously and maturely. What I appreciated the most aboutVespertineis how differently it handles the issues of faith and religion, not only from other YA fantasy, but from other fantasy books covering the topic in general. In a lot (but certainly not all) of recent books, it's usually discovered that the god(s), or whatever the central figure of worship is, aren't there and the whole religion is a lie. I understand why this is done, but it gets predictable quite quick. While some of the religious authorities of figures inVespertinehave suspicious goals and motives and Artemisia even questions if her prayers will reach the Lady though she does believe in her, Rogerson avoids most of these tropes. She takes the religion and Artemisia's concerns and doubts seriously. There is a nuance and no beating over of your head.Speaking of avoiding of tropes and stereotypes, I praise Rogerson for avoiding so many of the YA clichés with Artemisia. In the beginning, Artemisia is a somewhat cold and closed off figure. Some of the other girls are afraid of her because of both her attitude and of the reasons she came to the convent in the first place. Artemisia doesn't put much faith in a lot of people and she's a bit of a grump, but Rogerson avoids the "Not like the other girls" and "girlboss" pitfalls. Artemisia doesn't think she's better than the other girls, nor anyone else, nor does she feel herself entirely and overtly special despite being possessed by the revenant and endowed with its powers. She is a loner and tries to act this way throughout the majority of the book and thinks nobody can do anything to help her, but Marguerite, another girl from the convent, calls her out on this.Thank you, Rogerson, for being the exception not the rule.The most interesting part about Artemisia is how closely she resembles actual medieval holy women and saints, particularly with regards to her own denial as to being a saint and how she treats her body through the book. Many real-life medieval holy women and saints did not come forward to their confessors or other Church officials with their visions or miracles because they feared as being branded as heretics, witches, fakers, or even insane. The ecclesiastical process for determining whether one was actually experiencing visions from God and having miraculous abilities--especially for women--was a long and arduous one. Not everyone who came forward, whether willingly or unwillingly, was exalted as a holy person. Artemisia's denial seems to extend from her reluctance to engage with other people and her fear of the power of the undead. Also like Artemisia, many medieval holy women and saints often neglected their bodies. They often starved themselves or beat themselves to atone for their own sins and/or the sins of the world. Artemisia is often indifferent to the exhaustion and scars her body receives; it possibly extends from when the fire spirit first burned her hands a child, but also because she believes there are more important matters at hand.Artemisia denies her sainthood, though most saints did too. In fact, there is a subtext peppered throughout the book about how the Lady often chooses and moves people who don't want to do Her tasks to begin with but have to anyway. Through these themes and concerns, Artemisia's arc is one of gradual and genuine change that is done very well. She has changed somewhat from who she is in the beginning and has the potential to change even more. I am very satisfied with it all. Special attention deserves to be focused on Artemisia's desire for self-sacrifice. Her reasons for it feel legitimate and her dedication for it, if it should happen, are not anything I've ever seen in a YA book before. Usually self-sacrifice is avoided because an author believes it shouldn't happen or it because it skirts too closely to being religious (usually depends on how the situation is presented honestly). However, when you really think about it, Artemisia's desire for self-sacrifice comes form an altruistic place, To echo my friend carol., when it's done for greater good self-sacrifice can be portrayed well.The magic system regarding the order of spirits and how they work is solid to me. There's a few confusing points at times though, but nothing that prevented me from enjoying the rest of the story. The world-building is even more solid; Rogerson is able to describe ecclesiastical politics of the world and what the world looks like without info-dumping and in readable prose. The prose in general is amazing! It's pretty without being too pretentious and is still able to be approachable to YA audiences, in my opinion at least. It definitely feels like genuine fantasy prose, but I couldn't help but feel a Gothic-esque tone to it all.The pacing is a bit slow in the beginning, but it picks up as it goes on. Again, the prose really aids here. I don't recall much info-dumping, or at least it isn't very heavy. I also enjoyed most of the other characters, particularly the revenant. The revenant was one of the sassiest undead spirits I have ever had the pleasure of encountering. It made a great foil to Artemisia and it changed too over the course of the book. Like Artemisia, the revenant has a hidden side to it that comes to the surface over the course of the novel. I genuinely cared for the both of them.I am happy with what happened in this book and how it was portrayed. It feels like an actual story and that things were accomplished in this book. Apparently, Rogerson is writing a sequel so I am interested to see where Artemisia and the revenant will go from here.This was such a hidden gem among YA fantasy. I've heardRaybeareris like this as well, I can't wait to get to it.