The basic plot idea and the description of this book on Amazon motivated me to buy and read it. Unfortunately, I persisted in my reading in spite of my misgivings about the quality of the writing. I should have known better. When I finish a mediocre book, I feel obligated to say why I find it disappointing and unworthy. I do not relish executing this kind of negative review, but I simply refuse to lie or let the matter pass in silence.That said, here goes: The plot is perhaps the best thing about the book. Yet, even the plot has major holes and extreme imperfections in it. The fae are the object of fascination and dislike among humans, but they subsist in a society where there is not just one, but there are TWO self-ruling monarchies. Really? This story could have been developed as a thematic exploration of, say, colonization, genocide or environmental destruction. But no. I find it highly implausible that unintentional or deliberate fae extinction would not be part of the picture in such a world. At one point, a rogue group of fae capture and blow up a human cruise ship without any governmental authority having any idea what happened. Really? Terrorists could capture a cruise ship and kills hundreds of people without anyone being alerted — as the crime is happening — that something is wrong? It makes no sense. The world-building in this book is stunted, largely implausible, often silly, utterly lacking in verisimilitude. To that, I would add that the characterizations are juvenile. They are not merely flat and simplistic, but ridiculously so. They are dictated by a need for narrative tension, without carefully anchoring in a robust or complex understanding of personhood, minds or human nature. The dialogue, the character’s motivations, the plot twists and turns almost never rise above the level of flat clichés, stereotypes, or mind-numbing silliness. I honestly do not understand why I continued reading this beyond the first chapter or two. I guess I wanted to get an answer about exactly what happened in the catastrophe that befalls Kallik at the beginning of this novel. However, I had to expose myself to far too much hackneyed writing to get to the end of this novel. I will most definitely not buy the sequel to find out how this whole thing turns out.There are many YA fictions that are fit for consumption by mature readers who have expectations of intellectual and literary quality. This is not one of them. If clichés, transparent plot devices, cheap deus ex machina twists and turns, extremely simplistic characters, flat and clichéd dialogues and abundant juvenile silliness that lack substance and verisimilitude do not bother you, you might love this novel and find it extremely entertaining. I most definitely did not.