DNF at 37%, 2 stars(mild spoilers but no major plot points)I wanted to like this book, I really really did. I found out about it's existence less than a month ago and decided on a reread of the series so I could end with this one. During this reread I remembered why I liked the Wings series so much. The original take on fairies, the magical world, the magic system, the characters, etc. After finishing Destined I wondered where Arabesque could go. The world had been saved, the story had been finished, the series had a beautiful -if not bitter sweet- ending.I started Arabesque with hope. Hope that it was as good as the first four books, hope that I would see beloved characters again and see what happened to them in the past ten years, hope that we would learn about what happened in Avalon after Jamison told Laurel about his plan. I was not disappointed. I got all of this and more. I ended up shedding a little tear when Yeardley spoke to Chelsea.It was everything I had hoped it could be, sadly enough, it only lasted for a few chapters. In my opinion, these first few chapters are the best -and should have been the only- part of this book. It's a beautiful answer to the questions I had after finishing Destined. Everything else in this book just feels off.Arabesque feeling different, dare I say almost wrong, started quite innocently with popculture references. Popculture references in general are not a bad thing, however, it felt weird, seeing as other than mentioning Gaiman's Stardust, there hadn't been any in the previous books. Which is the reason I was startled when the Academy was described as Hogwards-like and Yeardley as it's Dumbledore or Snape (in my humble opinion, Yeardley is ten times the man Snape could ever wish to be, but this is a discussion for another time). There were other popculture references, but I've tried to forget all of them seeing as they felt so out of place.Rowen's storyline was alright, and if it had been tweaked a bit it might even have been on par with the other books. The idea of a fairy going to the human world to learn ballet is an interesting concept with lots of possibilities. An entitled fairy who believes it's her right to be a ballerina and since she's scared of losing her place in the ballet group to someone less deserving (but she "isn't jealous" she just "wants to be special") decides to go the the human world even though she's very spieciest towards humans and barely has a positive thought about them, is less interesting. I think her learning to love humans could have been an interesting set up for a story, had it involved more than watching Netflix, asking Laurel's dad some questions and the most insta instalove I have seen in quite some time.Compliments need to be given to the ballet school and Meghan storyline. I am neither a ballet dancer, nor black, so I can't say how well it was handled, other than that I liked the light that was put upon this issue. You see, Meghan is the only black student in Rowan's course, not only that, she's a scholarship student. It is made clear quite quickly that the other (white) students are not a fan of Meghan, who is better than all of them. Racism in the ballet industry is a real issue. The fact that Arabesque didn't shy away from showing it was definitely a nice thing to see.Next up: Tamani's storyline. Where do I even start?Let's start with the parts I enjoyed. Tamani and Laurel have planted a seed. I loved reading about this since I had wondered about how this would be done since they were living in the human world. Definitely one o the highlights of the story! Tamani is looking forward to becoming a father and is so damn proud, it's wonderful to read and see. I love Tamani and Laurel and their future child.Now for the bad parts, Tamani's nightly hobby. It's, how do I say this, bad? ridiculous? Like it was writen by someone who had just finished Batman the Animated Series and decided to add Tamani to it? And I could have looked passed this. I was willing to take it for what it was, roll my eyes at Tamani's shenanigans and laugh it off. It wouldn't have bothered me if not for the world breaking elements in it.You see, Tamani's plotline suddenly takes a left turn and introduces worldbuilding elements that have never been a part of the Wings world before. Where were these during the first four books? Laurel and co. could definitely have used some of this. It didn't even need to have an explicit appearance in the main series, just a mention or reference would have been more than enough. But no, it hadn't. Which means it didn't exist up until Arabesque was written. It feels like a macguffin just created to give Tamani information and to then never be seen again. Was there really no other way Tamani could have figured this out?You might be wondering why I haven't mentioned Laurel yet. I too had been wondering why there was barely any Laurel in this book. Even though she's the main character for the first four books, she barely appears in Arabesque. Arabesque has two main POV's: Rowen's and Tamani. Tamani thinks a lot about Laurel and his love for her, how she's doing, their sprout, etc. But Laurel herself barely if at all appears in the book after the first few chapters. I'm glad for other reviews mentioning some information you find out about her around the end of the book. If no, I would have known nothing about her other than "she lives in the house near the gate, has a lot of plants and potion making stuff in her house and is looking forward the having her child".David is mentioned briefly but that's it, and Chelsea gets a moment to shine in Avalon and we meet the family she created for herself. Both of them deserve the best.I'm angry at this book, angry cause of the disappointment I felt while reading it, angry cause I had to dnf it even though I wanted to love it, angry because it can't even hold a candle to the beauty that is the original four books. In my opinion: don't read this book, and if you do, just read the first few chapters where they visit Avalon and then close the book and put it away. If you do end up reading more of it, I sincerely hope you'll enjoy it more than I did, I hope you'll find the joy and love I wished I could have gotten while reading it, I wish you a better reading experience than I had.