Beasts of Prey is a beautiful and powerful YA High Fantasy tale with a wonderful world of magic and African Mythology created by a Pan-African own voices author. There are several different themes that range from drug use, grief, religion, servitude and I believe possible OCD. You would think this is too many to tackle in one book but it was woven together smoothly and everything fit perfectly in its place.“Nightmares hunt like the beasts of prey. Vanquished in the light of day.”Koffi and her mother are indentured servants at the Night Zoo. They are in charge of handling one of most dangerous of all the fascinating and deadly creatures that make up the show.Ekon is an initiate, on his way to becoming one of the elite warriors of the Sons of the Six. He is desperate to make it into the brethren along side his brother and to continue his family’s legacy.Koffi and Ekon very different lives intersect after a distressed Koffi accidentally starts a fire at the Night Zoo. The Sons of the Six are sent to help extinguish the fire and round up any runaway indentures. That fire ends up starting off a chain of events that lead to Koffi and Ekon working together to hunt the Shetani, a ferocious beast that has been killing Lkossa’s citizens for years.Both of them have their own reasons for conspiring to hunt and capture the beast.Koffi needs to bring the beast to the cruel owner of the Night Zoo, so she can free herself and her mother from years of indentured services.Ekon needs the Shetani in order to change Father Olufeni’s mind about expelling him from the Sons of the Six after things went wrong while putting out the fire Koffi started. Ekon will prove he is worthy by protecting the citizens from ongoing years of terror from the mighty beast.Their journey takes them into the Greater Jungle where no Lkossan dares to travel. Along the way they cross paths with dangerous magical and mythical beasts like Anatsou the creature with the torso of a man but legs of a spider. As well as a beautiful but poisonous forest lush with unique foliage. Ekon and Koffi find that the magic they thought was long ago extinct in their world does in fact actually still exist. But as they make their trek further into the jungle they bite off more than they can chew and may not be able to find the Shetani let alone make it out alive.The story had 3 POV’s Koffi, Ekon &Adiah. Koffi & Ekons story intertwined pretty much at the beginning, so when Adiah’s character popped up and she didn’t seem to belong to their story it was a bit confusing, I kept thinking I was missing something. When I finally figured out where Adiah’s narrative was going, I was floored. Ayana Gray did a great job keeping it intriguing and mapping her story out. In fact there were many plot twists that I actually didn’t see coming and that’s hard to do with a seasoned reader.I noticed one of the genres was classified as romance on Goodreads, I can't say I agree. There is an attraction for sure but no romance. I’m wondering if AG will develop more of a relationship in the second book? But this was pretty much strictly fantasy. And I think it fit well for this story.I am looking forward to the next book in this captivating saga, to see what other adventures and troubles Koffi and Ekon will find for themselves.Thank You Penguin Teen for this gifted copy in exchange for my honest review.