Eighth in the Chronicles of Elantra urban fantasy series for young adults.My TakeI am so enjoying Sagara's storyline! I picked this installment up at the library and started reading it on the way home. I simply could not wait. And as soon as I write up this review, I'm planning to re-read it. One of the intriguing pulls this series exerts on me is that Sagara doesn't have her characters react like regular humans. Well, sure, most of them aren't human at all, but I still keep having that expectation, *grin*! Lord Nightshade is attracted to Kaylin and Sagara allows us to wonder if it's sexual or merely her magical abilities, but she still hasn't revealed which or if it's yet another possibility. He and the Lady certainly reveal their race's lack of concern for those short-lived animals and keep standing me on my head. Then there's the very slow build of Severn's romance. Oh, man, it's a good thing the entire storyline is so interesting…'cause the slow pace on some of the romancing is driving me nuts!This particular story is, well, not a bridge so much as half of the story that takes us to the West March. I'm assuming thatCast in Sorrowwill reveal whether Kaylin succeeds as the harmoniste.Kaylin is a challenging concept for many of the ruling elite and it's her consistent approach to love and family, her insistence on caring for people that forces the many to re-examine their own beliefs.Kaylin also needs to be careful what she wishes for! She is so not a morning person and being confronted by one such every frickin' morning is not good for her psyche! Then there's that loss that is all the more poignant for having been her first real home since her mother died.Someone is playing a vicious game of silly buggers with fieflings.Sagara has never hidden that the human life span is considered incredibly short by the Dragons and Barrani, but it really came home in Kaylin's request: "Can you hold off on the whole war thing until after I'm dead?"I hate being the only mortal in a gathering full of Immortals who think killing each other cleverly is the height of good manners.Oh, ohhh, Kaylin needs pretty dresses for her so-fascinating trip through Barrani space. I enjoyed Sagara's slow reveal of the truth behind the "inns" where the Barrani party stayed. She really does do an amazing job of teasing you along and bit by bit letting drop more clues in this amazing world she's built.Everybody keeps warning Kaylin to name the little guy, and for all the experience she has with names, I don't understand why she's so resistant.Evanton, the High Lord and his Consort, Bellusdeo, the Tha'alani all see Kaylin as something important, and yet Sagara still has Kaylin in a menial position making very little money. Contradictions, contradictions, contradictions…Again, it's Kaylin's words, her stories that save the day. The everyday tales that assuage the fire elemental, that remind the humans of their own lives.The StoryLord Nightshade requires payment for the information he provided inCast in Ruin, 7, and that payment is Kaylin's company to the West March.You'd think that getting out of town---and in the company of the so-very-powerful Barrani---would mean life was safer for Kaylin. Away from the assassination attempts, the bombings… Nuh-uh. Kaylin's presence simply means that life will always be interesting. Especially with her new baby dragon…On the plus side, her lessons with Diarmat are having an effect.The CharactersKnown asElianneas a child in Nightshade, she's nowPrivate Lord Kaylin Neyaof the Hawks, theChosendue to the tattoos on her body, andkyutheto Lord An'Teela and the Lord of the West March. But now the attention is downright hostile since her egg hatched---an extremely protective glass dragon, a familiar for whom many a Barrani would destroy the world---and the way station chose the blood of the green for Kaylin to wear, making her theharmoniste.Corporal Lord Severn Handred, a former Wolf who is now a Hawk, cannot be spared from his duties as Kaylin must be. He does however have his own secret assignment.Lady Bellusdeois the Dragon Queen, a rebellious golden Dragon who likes and respects Kaylin. Her companionship is very useful at their etiquette lessons: Bellusdeo is too much like Kaylin and yet, the so very punctilious-and-properLord Diarmat, Commander of the Imperial Guard ordered to teach Kaylin etiquette, must accept Bellusdeo's questions and mutterings where he'd simply eat Kaylin.Yes, I mean that literally!Lord Sanabalisis one of four Dragon lords at the Imperial Court and is supposed to be teaching Kaylin how to use her magic. TheArkonis the oldest Dragon at court and the palace library is his hoard; Bellusdeo knew him as Lannagaros.He also has some home truths for Kaylin about Bellusdeo.TheDragon Emperor"was born during the wars between the Barrani and the Dragon flights".Maggaronis Bellusdeo's Ascendant, a Norannir.The Hawks include:TheHawksare the investigators headed up byLord Grammayre, the Hawklord who has a soft spot for Kaylin.Sergeant Marcus Kassan, a.k.a., Ironjaw, a Leontine, is still cursing up a storm over the paperwork and overtime caused by the investigation into the extortionate chancellor of the exchequer.Caitlinis his unofficial second-in-command and she does a great job of funneling most of the paperwork away from Marcus.Clint, a terrified Aerian, is worried that Kaylin won't be around to ruffle his feathers.Teela, a.k.a., Lord An'Tella, andTainare Barrani involved in the embezzlement investigation.Lord Tiamaris,a Dragon, is the fieflord of Tiamaris withTara, the Tower, the gardening Lady, a very hands-on Avatar, especially compared to other fiefs. They make a good pair of rulers---the first to actually care about the people within their fief.Morseis Tiamaris and Tara's second-in-command and very protective of Tara.Yvanderis one of theirs and being tricked.Lord Nightshade, Calarnenne, is an Outcaste Barrani fieflord chosen as the Teller whose methods of profit anger Kaylin. Supposedly, his role prevents other Barrani from killing him. Supposedly.Lord Andellenis the Barrani guard who has become a part of Kaylin's life, and he joins her on the journey to the West March.TheHigh Lordand his Consort, theLady, the Mother of the Race, rule the Barrani. And the Lady is still incredibly angry over Kaylin's choices inCast in Chaos, 6, and now believes it part of a deep-laid plot.She has got to learn to understand Kaylin!Other Barrani Lords on the trip includeLord Evarrim, one of Kaylin's enemies and Teela's cousins andLord Iberrienneis also a cousin.Lirienneis the Lord of the West March.The way stations are the Hallionne, the hearts of the green, created by the AncientsEach being is him- or herself the way station, an Avatar. Able to protect a vast area around them and stretch to provide food and shelter to whomever requests hospitality.Hallionne Sylvannewas the first, the tree.Hallionne Kariastosappears as the water dragon antagonized by Kaylin's familiar. He is awakened by the Lady.Hallionne Bertolle, saved by Kaylin who now knows his name, andHallionne Orbaranneare under attack. Wilson and Roberts are two of Bertolle's six brothers.Shadows, similar to theFerals, but bigger, more lethal, attack them on their journey. And they can speak! Part of the Hallionnes' purpose is to protect against these Shadows.Terranowas one of the children changed, and he intends to kill the Lady.Ynpharionis returned by Kaylin.Maryais the chief midwife who calls Kaylin out when a birth is going wrong.Miccha Jannosonis a young boy reported missing.Brentis another of the missing.Lords of LawandLords of Chaoshave one thing in common---the destruction of the other. Otherwise each Lord was unique. The Shadows were created by three of the Lords.The various divisions within Elantra include:TheAeriansare birdmen with wings who can fly, but they are not shifters.Barraniare the upper class in this society, although not the uppermost. TheLeontineare lion shifters.Arcanistsare mages who work independently of the Dragon Emperor while the Mages owe him their allegiance. The fiefs in this story---Tiamaris, Nightshade, and Ravellon---are only three out of seven criminal neighborhoods around Elantra. The beings who rule fiefs are the fieflords who provide the name of the fief itself, shape its existence, and protect its boundaries from the Shadows. Ferals areOutlandsare where the portal paths are located.The CoverThe cover is a background of blue-greens of a forest at dusk with fairy lights while Kaylin in her yellow-greenblood of the greengown perches on a moss-covered log cradling her multi-colored egg, the gold bracer on her arm, her peach-toned flesh rising up above the simple horizontal bustline, her dark hair blowing in the breeze almost reflecting the breezy lines of the tattoos on her body.The title can be taken two ways: literally, since the cast of characters is indeed in peril and/or metaphysically with their worldCast in Peril.