City of Dragonsis the third book in Robin Hobb'sRain Wild Chronicles. According to Hobb, the first two books (Dragon KeeperandDragon Haven) were actually intended to be one book, but were split due to length. And the third and (forthcoming) fourth books were the same.City of Dragonsisnota standalone book—it has no climax, virtually no resolution to its myriad storylines, and in fact where you would expect things to be wrapping up it only spawns new plot threads. In a genre where Pat Rothfuss can publishThe Wise Man's Fearand we get innumerableWheel of Timedoorstops I'd question whether splitting the story was really necessary, but, regardless, my rating and review are with the understanding that I'm only looking at part of a whole.City of Dragonscontinues to follow the dragons and their keepers. They've found fabled Kelsingra. Some are beginning to explore the city and reawaken its magic, but most of the dragons are trapped across the river, unable to fly. Leftrin, captain of the liveship Tarman, returns to Cassarick to report on the expedition and purchase much-needed supplies. Meanwhile, the plot spiderwebs out through the Rain Wilds and beyond. New "impervious" ships that can withstand the caustic Rain Wild River compete with liveships for the valuable Rain Wild trade. The dying Duke of Chalced becomes more desperate to get his hands on dragon flesh which he believes will cure him.And familiar characters from earlier books (and series) make an appearance too. We see Tintaglia and Icefyre, if only briefly. Hest Finbock, consumed by greed and revenge, gets caught up in the Chalcedean intrigues. We see a lot more of Malta and Reyn Khuprus, expecting their first child, and even Selden Vestrit, now imprisoned and shown off as a freak due to his Elderling transformations. The result is thatCity of Dragonsisn't focused on the dragons and keepers like the earlier volumes. It is a much broader book, showing the rippling consequences of Kelsingra's discovery and setting into motion all the forces that will no doubt clash in the finale.Hobb's trademarks are all there: an immersive setting, lush prose, and deep, sympathetic characters. But this book doesn't feel as dark or as desperate as Hobb's other writing. There are threats, such as the fear that with Kelsingra known it will be overrun by treasure seekers, and the mysterious Chalcedean conspiracy. And problems, like the shortage of food and supplies, or the fact the dragons can't fly and so are completely dependent on their keepers. But none of these things feels particularly urgent or unmanageable. Disaster is not imminent. There are a few exceptions, such as one very desperate scene on the dark branches of the tree city of Cassarick (you'll know it when you read it)—but even that scene feels brief and truncated.But not every book needs to ratchet up suspense to unbearable levels. The book is a process of discovery, learning about the past and hoping for the possibilities of the future. Will the ancient society be restored, Elderlings and dragons living in symbiosis? And it is very much about relationships (romantic and otherwise). People are constantly forced to make choices about who to trust, who to be with, and then dealing with the consequences of those choices. Combine that with all the threads Hobb left in motion, and the final book promises to be an exciting conclusion to the series!