Warning: Do not read if you didn't read "Shatter Me" and don't want to be spoiled?! *lol*I'm not quite sure if an additional short story to a series can really spoil you, but I thought I might warn you just in case! ;-PBut then again the only people who will read this will be people who loved the series so umm.... We're good?! *lol*Anywayyyyyyy!First of all: I already liked Warner in “Shatter me” and to read his POV in “Destroy me” only caused me to love him even more! XDIL.O.V.E.Warner and I want to hug him and heal his broken heart! Gosh! That poor boy! That lovely ruined and lonely little thing! To read what he thinks, what he feels and to know that Juliette’s written words and actions destroyed him… It was just too much to bear! T_TI hated to read how much he struggled and how broken he truly is and I really really really hope that Juliette will give him a chance to win her heart. >_< His love for her is so intense that it actually hurt and I don’t even know how he’s able to get up each and every day. I mean, hell she shot him and considering his feelings this must have hurt at least as much as the wound! =(Well anyway! I liked his relationship with Delalieu and I hated his father! With a fierce passion! *grrr*That scene where he almost choked his own son? Gosh how much I despise him!Can anyone get rid of this man in the next few books? *hires Celaena*Since I’m a sucker for quotes I’m going to end this review with the ones I liked the most:The things I said to her.A tight breath.The way I touched her.My jaw tenses.If it were nothing but sexual attraction I’m sure I would not suffer such unbearable humiliation. But I wanted so much more than her body.Yesh, you wanted to love her and she shot you! Dang it! T_T“I drop the bread back onto my plate. “My opinions,” I say to him, quietly this time, “should not so easily break your own. Stand by your convictions. Form clear and logical arguments. Even if I disagree.”I adored him for that sentence alone! XD“His hand closes around my throat.The movement is so rough and violent I’m almost relieved. Some part of me always hopes he’ll go through with it; that maybe this time he’ll actually let me die. But he never does. It never lasts.Torture is not torture when there’s any hope of relief.”That moment killed me, I swear! >_<“I did not bring her on base to exploit her ability. And I certainly did not expect to fall for her in the process.But these truths and my real motivations will be buried with me.”Jeez! Hopefully not!!!“A look into her mind.And though the anticipation is killing me, I’m also acutely aware of just how badly this might backfire. I’m suddenly not sure I ever want to know. And yet I do. I definitely do.”Warner is so torn it’s almost painful! XD“On the battlefield, I’m able to disconnect myself from the motions I’ve been taught to memorize. I’ve developed a reputation as a cold, unfeeling monster wo fears nothing and cares for less.But this is all very deceiving.Because the truth is, I am nothing but a coward.”You’re brave Warner! So brave! Don’t let anyone tell you any different!!!“But there are some things I do not forgive.I don’t consider myself a moral man. I do not philosophize about life or bother with the laws and principles that govern most people. I do not pretend to know the difference between right and wrong. But I do live by a certain kind of code. And sometimes, I think, you have to learn how to shoot first.”It was so sad that all his efforts had been in vain, but he’s trying to be a good person and that counts for something! =)“Love is a heartless bastard.I’m driving myself insane.”Warner you truly destroyed me… in the best possible way!And with that sentencemy review actually ends! ;-)