I’d heard of curses—the storybooks are full of them—but this was the first time I’d seen one in action.--------------------------------------You never know where the trapdoors are in your life, do you?Once Upon a Time, Stephen King decided to write a fairy tale. So, bring in some Brothers Grimm, Disney, Mother Goose, add in some H.P. Lovecraft, for good measure, and plenty more, stir for a good long while in the cauldron that is SKs brain, and “Poof!” There it appears. Being Stephen King, the book is over 600 pages, so not exactly Mother Goose length.I love all the stuff that Robert E. Howard, Conan the Barbarian and some of the characters in the Edgar Rice Burroughs books, who would find these strange deserted cities, monsters and things. I thought it’s kinda like fairy tales. And I started to kinda get interested in that, and I thought maybe I could combine those two things, Maybe I could take the whole fairy tale riff.- from the Losers Club interviewCharlie Reade is a pretty good kid. But he hit into a bit of bad luck. He was seven when Mom made the mistake of walking across a local bridge on an icy night. Soon after, dad started drinking in earnest, managed to survive in his job for three years, but was ultimately let go. After months of ever worse drinking by his dad, Charlie did something that was alien to him.Stephen King- image from The Financial TimesHe prayed to God to help his dad. Help arrives when Charlie is ten in the form of a former workmate introducing pop to AA. Feeling that he must hold up his end of the deal, Charlie is ever on the lookout for the task that he thinks God wants him to take care of. Years later the day arrives, and Charlie, seventeen now, steps up, saving the life of a local crank who had had a bad accident. Mr. Bowditch had more than just a foul temper and a creepy old house. He had an old German Shepherd, Radar, who loved him dearly. Charlie takes on the task of caretaking Radar and Mr. Bowditch, and fast friendships develop. Bowditch had another thing of some significance, a shed covering the entrance to a hidden world.Mr. Bowditch’s house is referred to as “The Psycho House” by the locals- from the bookThere comes a time (about 35% of the way in) when it is necessary for Charlie to brave that journey and the story takes off, as Charlie and Radar head down and out of this world. There is a sundial down there that can reverse-age the now-beloved dog. Charlie is determined to save her.…these books, particularly the Edgar Rice Burroughs books, like John Carter of Mars…they’re supposed to have this hero who’s like, muscular, you know, he played football in college and at the same time he’s got a brain, he’s handsome and got a cleft chin and all that good stuff and I thought I’d like to write a character like that. I’d like to write a character, who’s big, tough, tall, strong, who’s smart, but I want to give him a dose of reality. If he’s a kid, a younger man, who as a younger kid put dogshit on a bad teacher’s windshield, and glued somebody’s ignition shut. In other words I wanted him to have an anti-Disney kind of thing in there.- from the Losers Club interviewKing succeeds in giving Charlie some dark sides, but he also gives him a large dose of shame to balance it out.Fairy Talefollows the familiar Campbellian structure of theHero’s Journeymonomyth, in which a “hero” goes on an adventure, leaving our pedestrian plane to take on challenges in a supernatural world, usually one below ours, engages in victorious battle, and returns home wiser and more powerful than when he or she left, with a newly enhanced ability to help others.Once down below, in a world called Empis, Charlie encounters many characters who would be quite comfortable in traditional western fairy tales. It is a magical place, as one might expect. There are multiple dealings with Rumpelstiltskin-type characters, (names figure very large here) royalty disguised as commoners, sentient non-human life, (including a cricket who might remind one of another boy on a journey) and a general bleakness darkening the land. I was reminded of C.S. Lewis’s Narnia series opener, in which that troubled land was described as being “Always winter but never Christmas.” More immediate correlations might be to King’s ownThe Talisman,The Dark Tower, andFrom a Buick 8,Rose Madder, andLisey’s Story, which all feature cross-world portals.Charlie must face and overcome perils in this new (to him) world, in order to achieve his goal of saving Radar. But, Charlie is somehow seen by the locals as some sort of a savior, a prince. (which again reminded me of Peter in Narnia) Charlie finds this odd (who, me?) but also feels a need to help out, so does what he can. Adventure ensues, as does a relentless, and very fun series of references to fairy tales of diverse sorts. King finds his fairy tales in various places. TCM flicks are among them, Niietzsche, Dickens, Kipling, Mark Twain and Thackery, Ray Bradbury, Jung, Lovecraft, Game of Thrones, Piers Anthony, and others.I tried to put in every goddam fairy tale I could think, including Ariel, the mermaid from the Disney film.- from the Losers Club interviewThe Wizard of Ozis a particular favorite, as there are multiple references, including an emerald city, fields of poppies, and a bit on the importance of shoes.Radar and Charlie- from the bookThe overall structure of the novel is a frame. Chapter one is Charlie telling us that he is going to tell us a tale--so we know that he will survive--and ends with Charlie letting us know that he is a twenty-something teacher of a seminar on Myth and Fairy Tales. Each chapter is introduced by a drawing of an element to come. These are delightful, adding to the fairy-tale feel of the novel.Gripes - Charlie keeps reminding us that he is speaking and hearing in a language other than English, a language that he seems to be absorbing by osmosis. Once the initial leap of faith had been requested, and presumably performed, these repetitions only served to remind us over and over again of that leap. Once would have been sufficient. And at 608 pages, it was definitely a bit long. I did not keep track of all the fairy tale, or other literary or filmic references sprinkled across the book, but they are legion, and spotting them offers its own form of satisfaction. Those who have read more of King’s work than I, which will be many of you, will pick up references to other King work that I missed (The Cujo reference is not missable). A weapon used here features large in a King seriesThere are some passing contemplations in the tale that rise above the simple experience of the plot. In one, Charlie wonders whether it is Empis that is the magical place or the world he was born into, offering some intriguing examples of why one might think that. There are more.There are familiar Kingian elements. A young man, or boy, forms a friendship with an older man. The man has significant secrets, but teaches his mentee what he can. There is a missing parent, a young person taking on adult responsibilities, issues with alcoholism, other worlds that exist in parallel to ours, coming to terms with our darker side, and more. One primary Kingian element that is particularly appropriate here is that this is a love story. Boy meets dog, and it is love that conquers all. It is also a love letter to story, the stories King read as a kid, the stories he has continued to inhale as an adult, whether of the fairy tale, horror, science fiction or adventure sort, whether taken in from the pages of a book or from screens, large and small. We as individuals are the stories we tell about ourselves.Our culture is defined by the stories we tell and repeat about our values and history. Story is as important to us as breathing and eating. Many of the fairy tales that King incorporates here are not, like the ones we grew up on, intended for bedtime reading to children. Mother Goose might not feel entirely comfortable with the darker pieces that King has imported into his magical kingdom (not exactly the happiest place on Earth), particularly the Lovecraftian ones, but I bet the Brothers Grimm (before Disney got its paws on their tales) would be all good with it. Whether your fairy tales begin with “Once upon a time or “A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away…” we have always been taken with stories that transport us to other realms, whether those places are characterized by magic, darkness, bizarre landscapes, alien beings, advanced technology, or some other form ofother-ness. I can’t say that once you read this you will live happily ever after but it may show you some roads you can travel to find your way there on your own, or even with a friend or two. Consider yourself transported.As a kid, I liked all the stories by Robert E. Howard, and I liked Edgar Rice Burroughs. One of the greatest things is The Land That Time Forgot. The story starts with a narrator who finds a manuscript on the beach. The narrator says, to you, the reader, read five pages and I will be forgotten. To me, that’s what fiction’s all about. Particularly fiction where a lot of stuff happens and where you’re kind of on an adventure, and you say to yourself, What I would like to do is for my readers to forget all their problems for a while, and just relax and get totally immersed in the story and get carried away to a different world.- from the Losers Club interviewThe novel has been optioned by Paul Greengrass to make a feature film, but it certainly seems better suited to a mini-series. I guess we will see.Review posted - 05/12/23Publication date – 9/06/22This review will be cross-posted on my site,Coot’s Reviews, soon. Stop by and say Hi!=============================EXTRA STUFFSK'spersonalandFBpagesreviews of some other books by this King-----2020 -If It Bleeds-----2019 -The Institute-----2014 -Revival-----2014 -Mr. Mercedes-----2013 -Doctor Sleep-----2009 -Under the Dome-----2008 -Duma Key-----2006 -Lisey's Story-----1977 -The ShiningOther King Family (Joe Hill) books I have reviewed:-----2019 -Full Throttle-----2017 -Strange Weather-----2016 -The Fireman-----2013 -NOS4A2-----2007 -Heart-Shaped Box-----2005 -20th Century GhostsInterview-----The Losers Club -A Stephen King PodcastFrom 7:00 – 10:45Songs/Music-----Keen’V -Rien Qu’une FoisItem of Interest from the author-----Stephen reads an excerptfrom Chapter 15Items of Interest-----Esquire -In Fantasy, Stephen king Gets Personalby Jonathan Russell Clark –Lark offers a fascinating take on some common threads in nis fantasies-----Booktrib -A Fairy Tale Worthy of a King- by McKenzie Tozanhe finds himself questioning which world is real, and which world is the fairy tale.-----Wikipedia -Hero’s journey-----Tor -Breaking Down the Fairy Tale Elements in Stephen King’s Fairy Taleby Rachel AyersAyers goes through the mushy borders between fairy tale, folklore and mythology.