"You never explained the part about when you can all die at once," I say as I shed my robe and start pushing my pajama shorts down my legs.Emit's eyes flick to the mirror, and suddenly the vehicle jolts when he runs off the road.Vance curses, and I make an embarrassing shrieking noise.A strong hand catches me before my head can smash the window closest to me. It takes me a second to realize that Vance is suddenly in the backseat with me, holding me against him, as Emit manages to right the car on the road."Forget how to fucking drive?" Vance gripes at him as he continues holding me against him, cradling my head to his chest like he's protecting it.My breaths stagger when my body becomes acutely aware of how close I am to him. I can hear his heart beating quickly with my ear pressed so close, and smell the subtle, refined scent of the cologne he wears.Why does him touching me always mess with my head? I liked it better when I thought he was gay."I wasn't expecting her to be stripping in the backseat," Emit mutters, bristling.Focusing on Emit's words and not Vance's touch, I cut my gaze toward the front."You run around naked all the time, so I didn't think modesty was an issue. Vance has seen me naked before. I didn't think it'd be a big deal, since I at least have on underwear," I defend. "I can't go inside a store wearing myHungry Hippopajamas."Emit scrubs a hand over his face and then tilts the mirror up toward the roof.Vance's hand on my head slowly moves down my back, as we drive on steadily. I immediately try to put some distance between us, since like I said, touching him fucks with my head.His gaze dips between us to my homemade panties that are not symmetrical or pretty. I immediately start tugging on my jeans, since my embarrassing underwear is causing a spectacle.I am really loving this series, but damn…this one ended on a bitch of a cliffhanger. I knew about it going in, so I won't complain about it. But damn, I did not want this end. All I'll say is that I love Violet, and I'm lovingallthe guys more and more as the series progresses. I'm liking Shera more and more, but I still miss Anna, I really hope she makes a miraculous reappearance. There's lots of answers, but still plenty of questions left. I already got the next one, so I'll be moving on to that one very soon.Maybe spoilers below, I tried to choose carefully to avoid them, but still…be warned.Just as a wolf launches itself at me from the back of the circle, a silver glint catches my eye, and a sword lands in the wolf's chest, pinning it to the ground.Vance Van Helsing lands in front of me in the next instant, yanking the sword out of the wolf, as he breathes heavily, eyes bright and pupils small, like he's someone else entirely.Wolves scramble back from him just like they did Arion."Well, this brings back memories," Arion chimes, as he carelessly and effortlessly rips out a couple of hearts like it's his night job.I can't watch Arion fight. It's too bloody, and his sounds of enjoyment are slightly terrifying.Vance doesn't acknowledge Arion. The Van Helsing starts slicing through the wolves that keep charging us."They want her," Arion says close to my ear, breathing me in as his arm goes around my waist. "It's like her blood drives them insane, and they want a taste. They think her to be our weakness they can exploit. Perfect lure," he murmurs, dragging his lips up my throat and to my ear. "I'll kill them all for making you bleed," he adds in a quiet whisper just for me.I'm not sure what anyone is supposed to say to that.His idea of romantic gestures is really,reallydisturbing, and I never find the appropriate fear I should have in his presence.I hold my silence, as he resumes enjoying the violence, while he pretends it's some sort of vengeance for me. Whirling around, I spot Emit's dark wolf as he boulders through a thick line of wolves.He backs his way to us, completing the circle around me. His tail is swishing in obvious agitation, and another vicious growl rumbles from his chest."San Rio Passage?" Damien asks, twirling his bloody sword as he glances over at Arion.Arion smirks."This is a little bigger than San Rio Passage," Van calls out absently. "And these are fucking pureblood omegas instead of human soldiers.""Should be easier," Arion states, as he picks up a discarded axe and twirls it. "We were just men then, and I had a bible instead of an appetite."As if they set up a cue I missed, all four of them lunge forward and go on the attack. Arion becomes a beast with an axe, his eyes fully pulsing red as his pupils try to disappear.Me? I'm still working on remaining calm and not panicking.~Vance is down to his boxer-briefs when I look over at him and find him opening one of my suture packs."How fortunate you had all those," Arion muses as I go brush Vance's hands away and take over, feeling like this is the one small contribution I can make tonight.It's almost a little too intimate when I kneel in front of him. I probably should have at least hesitated before simply dropping to my knees between his legs."My omegas packed for her," Emit says gruffly. "They probably thought I'd spend time trading blows with Vance."The crafty omegas failed to pack healing potions that could have cut out all this intimate care that forces me to behands-on.Diabolical wolves."It's almost the full moon. You always fuck or fight," Arion says dismissively. "It makes sense they'd pack accordingly."I feel three heavy stares settle on me, and I stitch Vance's leg a little quicker, as he fingers a lock of my hair."Oh,so the wolf has had his turn. You crafty bastard. You got a fuck and a fight. Very interesting," Arion says with a slightly alarming - and certainly offensive - tone. "Guess that just leaves me then."I resist the urge to glare at the vampire I just saw shred through wolves. The only injuries he has are the bullets he took for me, which really pisses me off, because I feel at fault for them.Arion is…the most complexbeingI've ever known. A soulless monster able to keep me safe. Even as he enjoyed the bloodshed immensely, I felt less and less threatened, and struggled less with the impending panic, because I didn't doubt he'd keep me safe.I'll never forget that dark, sadistic grin on his lips or that twisted, sinister look in his eyes. Yet, the moment he stepped in front of me like a human shield, with zero hesitation, he turned it into another one of his creepy romantic gestures.I'm entirely too screwed up, this night has been…seriously fucked up, and I really shouldn't be thinking about anything at all. I need to process.A. Lot.~The impatient, alpha vampire pushes through the door when he hears Violet laughing. Violet startles, as Arion claps his hands, already smiling as his eyes drink her in. She's holding a sheet over her, no longer surprised by our interruption.Damien grabs a discarded robe from the floor, covering his bare body that is practically glowing from the fresh feeding. I idly note the destruction to Vance's room. He doesn't seem bothered by it in the least, and that speaks for itself.I hate both those fuckers more than I already did."I do hope you remember she's fragile," Arion says as he glances around at the damage."It looks worse than it was," Vance assures us as he clears his throat, cracks his neck, and starts pulling on his fucking Thursday pajama pants."Not really ready to be done just yet, butsure, come on in," Damien says with a heavy dose of sarcasm, as he goes to take a seat on the couch and lights one of his cigars."If you didn't want us over here, then you shouldn't have sent the pictures. Though, I do admit I love the technology at my fingertips these days," Arion says as he holds up his phone, smiling like the ass he is.The color drains from Violet's face."I was in a good mood and trying to be nice, andthisis how you repay me?" Damien asks with narrowed eyes, glaring at the vampire."You sent them pictures?" Violet asks Damien on a shriek, certainly sounding horrified.Vance continues to keep his back to us as he pours himself a drink."Just a few," Damien tells her dismissively."Do you really not understand the wordprivacy?" Violet asks."I'm a sexual deviant by nature, and you crack a window open for me. How am I to know what your boundaries are?" he asks her with a grin, as she shakes her head."I told you not to reward bad behavior," Vance says idly, as he passes her a glass of champagne.She takes the glass from him and berates Damien a little longer. The entire dynamic between the three of them has Arion and I both staring in from the outside of their bubble.It annoys me how much I feel left out, because it makes me sound too similar to Arion's ridiculous self.~With some really terrible underwear stitching that is tickling me in all the wrong places under my clothes, causing me to walk a little wonky, I head into my house.Lemon and Leiza both sniff the air and arch an eyebrow at me, before twin grins form."I had two showers," I say, holding up just as many fingers."I smell Emit, but not sex with Emit," Lemon says on a long inhale, frowning at me."Sex with Vance and someone else," Leiza adds."Damien," I supply dryly.They both grin. "It's always the sweet girls you don't suspect," Leiza manages to say with a semi-straight face."Rolling downhill. This direction just happens to have less complicated blockades…for the time being. I'm sure that charges soon," I state, not saying the I-word they all hate hearing.Their smiles fall away."With Arion, maybe things will be different," Leiza says with very little conviction."Has Ingrid warmed up to Dad yet, or does he still think there are large mice in the walls?" I ask in deflection."They played cards today," Lemon states, glancing toward me as her eyes light up a little. "We've been good with your father. Are you sure we can't just have a little-""No. Youcannothave sex with my father," I hiss, having already said this too many times to count."I just don't know if I've met someone more adorably normal than him," she tells me on a wistful sigh."Was it the first time you've been with two men at once?" Leiza randomly inserts."I'm going to go make myself some breakfast. It's been a long night," I tell them, listening to them giggle at my back."Did Emit watch?" I hear Tiara ask around a yawn from the couch, like she's just now trying to get in on afinishedconversation.I ignore her and walk faster, moving toward the coffee. I'll be skipping sleep today, since I'm finally able to work in my own store.I can't help but let my mind wander back to the way it felt to have their hands on me…at the same time…It's the first time I've truly enjoyed being a monster.