Fair warning, there will be spoilers in this review though they will be hidden. I want to talk about the plot twists, but I’ll do my best to keep that section separate from everything else.I know people are complaining about the long wait for this book, but I think it was a good thing for me. This series has a confusing plotline that I couldn’t keep track of. By the time I started this book I had forgotten most of the loose plot threads. I don’t think very many of them were resolved, but I’m not complaining. This book focuses almost entirely on the battle with Idun, the mystery of Violet, and the relationship between Violet and the guys which is all I ever really wanted.The first half of the book is a series of seemingly random events. Damien fights Dorian and claims Violet as his flame. Vance proposes to Violet then gets knocked out by the Portocale curse. Violet winds up taking a trip through his memories when she tries to break the curse. She also gets into an argument with Idun when an omega is attacked by shifters.This part dragged at times. The plot crept along with no real direction. Other than the relationship stuff it didn’t feel like what was happening had any real relevance. Then suddenly it’s time for Arion’s monster Olympics where everything starts to go off the rails. Vance leaves for a meeting with Pandora, but he gets kidnapped. While Emit and Talbot are rescuing him Violet tries to distract Idun. This goes horribly wrong when she manages to knock Idun back at one point. It’s clear to everyone this is the final straw and the war is about to begin.Now time for the spoilers.We discover that Talbot is Pandora’s son and he opened his own box with a monster inside. This monster possesses random people though, and it turns out it possessed Violet when she was a baby. I never did understand how this happened even though Marta and Talbot spend pages trying to explain. It turns out not only is Violet Frankenstein, she’s also basically Jekyll. Anna isn’t really a ghost, she’s the monster/Hyde.For me at least this was completely unexpected and a great twist. I’m still confused by most of what happened with Anna in the past, but it’s not worth thinking about too hard. It makes enough sense that I was happy to go with it. It also makes me feel like I wasn’t completely wrong for disliking Anna in the first two books. She’s more unstable than evil, but she is a monster looking to create havoc.The next long section of the book details the fight between Hyde/Anna/all of the other “ghosts” and Idun. It turns out Hyde is much stronger and she destroys Idun easily. The guys spend hours trying to chase them down, and mostly just stand around in shock when they do catch up for a moment. This went on way too long, and it was hard to follow. There was too much going on at once with too many characters involved. We also never saw the moment when Idun realized she was over powered which was disappointing. Hyde’s actions were more ridiculous than frightening so for me the battle felt a little anti-climactic.Then we had a really long wrap up. I swear they probably spent over 100 pages getting to the happily ever after once the battle was over. Nothing really happened. They spent lots of time talking and having sex. By that point I was over it though and just wanted to get to the end.My biggest complaint about the book is that it went on and on and on. The villains were over the top with evil laughs and monologues that went on for pages about how powerful they were. Everything is over explained (but sometimes still doesn’t make sense), and over analyzed. There was way too much tell and not enough show. Even the huge battle, which should have been exciting, went on for too long.On the plus side I was reminded how intriguing and creative I found this world at the start of the series. I was genuinely surprised by the plot twists, and very happy that it didn’t end in the predictable way I was expecting. For anyone who is nervous after the end of One Apocalypse, don’t worry. The main characters all get their HEA. There’s no weird twist in the relationship storyline.The guys were on their best behavior for the most part. They work together more than they have in the past, and they treat Violet better, so I wasn’t as upset with them as I have been. It also helps that Violet finds her own power so she doesn’t get stepped on quite as often.All in all, while this book is far from perfect, I think it’s maybe the second best book in the series. I was so ready to be done after Gypsy Rising, but now I’m glad I stuck it out. This wasn’t perfect, but it was a satisfying ending.