Update:It hasn't happened to my knowledge, but here's a quick disclaimer: please do not send this review to the author. These are my own thoughts, on a book reviewing site, which are NOT meant for XJZ, and I don't claim to know any better than them - I'm just a clown on the Internet.Before I start the review in earnest, I want to make the following clear: this was one of my most anticipated new releases for 2021. I’ve been a fan of Xiran Jay Zhao and of their content ever since they reviewed the 2020 Disney live-actionMulan, and I was more than eager to read their debut novel, especially with several of my Goodreads friends getting ARCs and giving it all 5 stars. I went into this book in good faith and expecting to love it. To say I was disappointed would be an understatement, because I would have given this 2 stars… if it wasn’t for the last part of the book, which not only made the feminist message of the story come crashing down for me but also pissed me off, which made me lower my rating to 1 star. I’m writing the following in part to vent, but also because I’ve heard people who left critical and/or negative reviews of the book have been bullied, so I’d rather go into detail as to why this book didn’t work for me, and make it clear, to avoid getting unfair assumptions about me.With all that being said, I do encourage people to read their book and make up their own mind about it. A lot of people have appreciated it and even loved it, so it might just be a “it’s just not for me” kind of situation. I for myself will continue to engage with XJZ’s YouTube content since I’ve always enjoyed it, and I will give the next book in the series a go, since this was after all a debut novel and there’s a lot of potential for improvement. My rating would have been probably higher if this book had better editing and maybe an extra 100 pages, so I have good hopes I’ll enjoy the next book more.So, I’ll start with the positive right off the bat: the concept of a futuristic China with Imperial China aesthetics, where mechas fight evil aliens is extremely interesting. The visuals described made me really want to see an anime adaptation of this to be able to see it on screen. While it’s not a historical alternate universe of sorts, there are many Easter eggs regarding Chinese history and famous historical characters, which makes me want to research about them in earnest and learn more, which makes me appreciate XJZ’s excellent work in presenting them to us all the more. I also like the fact a positive and central representation of a F/M/M trouple has made its way into a YA book, even if they didn’t have nearly enough development, and while XJZ has received a lot of flack for doing so, to the point that it seems it was the reason why they stay away from Goodreads, I want to make it clear this was not my issue with the novel at all. This isn’t one of those reviews, and I will not tolerate any kind of comment that tries to bash the novel for that aspect.As I mentioned, the plot takes place in Huaxia, a futuristic Imperial China that’s under constant threat from the Hundans, a bunch of Evil Aliens from space, and that’s pretty much all you’ll ever know about those guys. Huaxia fights them using Chrysalises, basically “dead” Hundun mechas that are repurposed so Huaxia can have a fighting chance. However, in order for the Chrysalis to be piloted and since Huaxia is a misogynistic af society, since it works on a Yin and Yang basis and depending on the pilots’ level of “qi” (which, I guess you could say that’s this universe’s take on magic? It’s hard to explain because qi is never really explained properly apart from the fact it’s linked to the five Chinese elements), it needs a male pilot, but also a female pilot who’s more of a helper and who is referred to as a “concubine-pilot”. What happens more often than not is that during combat, the mental strain that comes from the concubine-pilots’ help is so strong that they die as a result of the effort. That leads to several problems regarding the worldbuilding, as I’ll enumerate below:-	Zetian herself mentions that there are population problems on the border, which the region where she comes from, since a lot of the girls are recruited to become concubine-pilots, which leads to a lot of boys remaining unmarried and gives way to population problems. That’s… literally mentioned once at the beginning, and is never brought up again. And keep in mind there are 329 active chrysalises at the time the story is happening, and pilots have several concubines assigned to them. We’re talking about thousands of girls who come and go. Which leads to me to wonder that sure, this is obviously a very misogynistic society, and yes, the families get a big compensation from their daughters becoming concubine-pilots and also another one when they die, but people *would* worry at such a threat being leveled at their communities’ survival, no matter how little they actually care about the girls’ wellbeing (which also depends on whether childbirth is as dangerous as it was in the past, which, again, would fit into the worldbuilding that we’re going for here, but I digress). And mind you, this isn’t Gilead where things are relatively recent and came thanks to a revolution, this is a system that has seemingly been going on uninterrupted for CENTURIES.-	Obviously, I’m not going to put into doubt the fact that a misogynistic society will view women as expendable, because that would be dumb, right? The concubine-pilots being viewed as expandable *does* make sense when you look at it at the surface level, and I get what was the intention, namely that it’s not so different from viewing women as wombs vs. using them as sacrifices to defeat the Hunduns, but given the aforementioned population problems, the last thing the government would want to do is give the population some incentive to revolt against the fact that they’re pretty much doomed to disappear? Especially since this misogynistic society, like so many others, outright declares that women are valuable in part because they bear children? All that to say, I can’t help but think there was a real missed opportunity to explore a new version of the Madonna/Whore complex, where dead concubine-pilots are glorified and presented as “saintly”, where all they did was getting their lives sucked out while the pilots they had to serve get to live and gather all the glory, which makes their glorification pretty pointless, in retrospect. Which would also give Zetian all the more incentive to rebel against that concept (i.e. “Yeah, that’s bullshit, my sister isn’t a saint, she’s just dead and those platitudes won’t bring her back”).-	So, with all that in mind, shouldn’t there be… some sort of criteria on whether someone becomes a concubine-pilot, and who ends up marrying to keep the population afloat? Something? Which, again, there are plenty of opportunities right there to highlight the rampant misogyny even more.(Also, maybe this is a cultural thing and I apologize for my ignorance, but the fact Zetian’s big sister is mentioned in name just *once*, that I don’t remember her name after all this and that Zetian only ever refers to her afterwards as “Big Sister” does make her feel a lot more nebulous than she should, which is kind of a problem given what the story’s message is about. Maybe it’s custom for older siblings in Chinese culture to be referred to as “Big Brother” or “Big Sister” rather than by their names, so if it’s the case, I apologize.)The story focuses on Wu Zetian, who’s an dystopian AU version of the famous Empress who was also the only woman in Imperial China to rule in her own name. In this novel, her incentive to become a concubine-pilot is to kill the guy (Yang Guang) behind her sister’s untimely death. Which, so far so good, except that while Zetian was planning to kill Guang the good ol’ fashion way of the stabbity-stab-stab, she ends up overpowering him while piloting, because she has a very high level of Qi compared to the pilot. The general belief in Huaxia is that all women have lower levels of qi than men, which goes on par with the misogynistic society it’s presented as. We discover later that the Chrysalises are rigged for them to drain the girls’ qi in order to spare the boys as much as possible (since Yang, the female counterpart in Yin-Yang, is considered “passive”), since girls in that society are viewed as expandable. That being said, that leads to the plot hole that Zetian is the only woman with a high enough level of qi to overcome that rigging, which leads to unfortunate implications, since that rolls on the principle that Zetian just wasn’t “passive” enough to get drained from her power, that being instance 1 of Zetian being “not like the other girls” (and I thought we’d all agree that trope was better left behind back in 2012?). Like, none of the girls with high levels of qi ever had anything close to survival instincts, if not feminist rage? Ever?On that note, where do Zetian’s feminist ideals even come from? Like it or not, people “are” influenced by their environment, whether they like it or not, which Zetian actually acknowledges at some point… except it’s of course to point that all women are brainwashed to be mean, vapid and stupid by the patriarchy, except for Zetian, apparently. Our heroine believes that women are as oppressed as they are not because they’re given very little chances of standing up without retribution thanks to the patriarchy, nope, they’re just basically too vapid and stupid to know what’s good for them, and that includes her own mother, who’s basically the walking stereotype of the battered wife and who, for all her shortcomings, *does* try to be a good mother for Zetian, except that leads to very little sympathy for her plight on Zetian’s side. And while I could understand Zetian hating her mother at the beginning of the story, she never comes to a realization that her mother is a victim just as much as so many other women are, and we’re even meant to realize that she had her own untimely death coming. It just reeks of victim-blaming, I’m sorry.Outside of her sister (who never has any development as a character beyond “she was kind and obedient, and she died”) and another concubine-pilot, Ma Xiuying (I’ll come back to her later), literally any woman Zetian meets ends up having actual catfights with her, for really petty reasons, and it’s always forced and contrived every time, because it’s the good ol’ “the patriarchy is a thing because women are too vapid and stupid to care lol” argument again. Even though, ironically, Ma Xiuying and another concubine-pilot by the name of Qieluo are much more complex female characters than Zetian ever is, not to mention they’re unironically the best characters in the whole book!I’ll admit I sighed in relief when Xiuying showed up – FINALLY, we’re getting the concept of sisterhood in this book! But I guess that was too good to be true, because Xiuying ends up “betraying” Zetian during the final battle, and when Zetian confronts her about it, she admits she did it because the lives of her 2 kids were threatened, and Zetian kills her… because I guess Xiuying should have put a girl she doesn’t even know that well before the lives of her kids? It doesn’t matter that they’re boys here, we’re talking about basic maternal instincts and no matter what the book wants me to believe, I’m pretty sure she would have done the same if her 2 kids were girls! And of course, Zetian goes “Lol, sucks to be you” and kills her, while thinking it’s a typical woman move (how *charming*, our feminist empress, people!) because I guess that whole thing can’t be used as an incentive to take over the government so Xiuying doesn’t ever have to betray someone in exchange for her kids’ safety.Oh yeah, and Zetian becomes Empress in the end because she manages to find the Chrysalis of the former Emperor (because she always needs Yishi, Shimin and now the Emperor to save her ass, #feminism), and she takes over Huaxia in full villain mode, killing her family so they’re not used against her like with Xiuying (and she has zero regrets or struggle with that), while Yishi who’s presented as the Soft Boy is fully enabling her and not having any objections about it or her methods.I can buy Zetian wanting to get at the top of the mountain despite her gender being a barrier for that, but what I don’t buy is her wanting to help other women at the same time, because given not only Zetian’s surroundings but also how she interacts with other women, it comes off as tacked on more than anything else. I find it interesting this book is based off The Handmaid’s Tale, because I’ll give Margaret Atwood this: the reason why her novel is as timeless as it is (and how, incidentally, the TV series did a very good job at developing) is because it takes care to present different types of women and how they react in the face of oppression. Yes, there are women who take advantage of the fact they’re as high as they can get to oppress other women (Serena Joy, Aunt Lydia), but there are also other women, like June, or Moira, or Emily, who stand up against the regime despite their circumstances being awful, and who support each other and other women no matter what.In Iron Widow, there’s none of that, unfortunately. All of this would have been better if Zetian was a Villain Protagonist, or if she was an Anti-Heroine who’s led to a darker path as the story advances. This is what I was expecting going into this book and I was looking forward to it – I’m not being harsher with Zetian on the basis of her being female at all! The problem is, we’re supposed to see Zetian’s vengeance, her anger, and her acts as righteous feminist fury, rather than the villain origin story that it actually is. And ultimately, that just makes Zetian’s feminist beliefs come off as… trite. Because she just hates everyone except her love interests. Her wanting to save women from an oppressive society ends up becoming an excuse for her own climb to power, and for all of her being angry at women becoming tools of the patriarchy in order to end up in a position where they can wield some sort of influence, you have to come to the unfortunate conclusion that the apple doesn’t fall that far from the tree.I will say, in conclusion to that part of the review, that I understand what XJZ was trying to do – there are some thoughts about how women are portrayed and how the public views them that have a lot of merit, for instance. I also think they intended to write a feminist revenge fantasy, which is a valid story, since some of my favorite films of all time are exactly that. However, I do think that they were trying to do too many things at once, which might have made them lose insight about certain aspects of the story and not think certain elements of it through, which sacrificed the nuance that is necessary to handle such themes. It’s also the reason why I can’t just dismiss it as a summer blockbuster flick with mechas, because this was clearly meant to be a serious book.I guess this is the point where I have to talk about the plot… which I don’t know how to do, because it was honestly all over the place, and it felt like a bunch of random events put together, so I’ll just go with the things that annoyed me.-	The prose… really reminded me ofThe Hunger Games. And not in a good way. Like, those inspirational quotes spread around still need a lot of work. And I never want to read the expression “nipple eyes” ever again. Ever.-	Also the character motivations are all over the place, with Zetian being the worst offender in that regard, but I’m not even going to go into everything because this review is like 3k words already-	So, Zetian becomes a viral sensation when she overpowers Guang, which, I *could* maybe buy, except that when people go in to see why Guang isn’t responding, Zetian basically comes out of the Chrysalis dragging his corpse, putting a foot on it, saying a badass line, and cackling like a maniac. Which sounds cool in theory, but when you remember that this is a very misogynistic society that will have her executed since you could very well say in court that she admitted to murdering the guy, that she’s perfectly fine with her entire family dying because of her (which, granted, she hates her family, including her mom who, as I said, does her best, but she doesn’t feel any remorse for that part of her plan once), and, most especially, THAT SHE FACES ZERO CONSEQUENCES FOR BEING SEEMINGLY RESPONSIBLE OF THE DEATH OF ONE OF THE BEST PILOTS, and not even used as some sort of example/cautionary tale, you really start putting the plot as a whole into question.-	Oh, and the reason why her big sister die? Guang just kills women for no reason. Which makes him a serial killer, basically, even if Zetian never calls him that specifically. Now, yes, there are serial killers and mass shooters out there who will specifically target women (the sad events at Polytechnique in Montreal come to mind), but it’s not treated with the gravity nor the attention such a serious issue warrants. It just feels like it was thrown in there for the sake of shock value.-	She meets Yishi again when… she’s being sexually assaulted by another pilot and he comes in just in time to save her. And yeah, it’s fucking pointless.-	I’ve mentioned it above, but the romance is unfortunately really underwhelming. So are the two love interests Yishi and Shimin, and there’s a problem when the story does more to make you sympathize with their plight (which I’m not trying to dismiss, by the way) than any female character that isn’t Zetian, especially when it’s supposed to be a feminist book.-	Oh, and the final plot twist everyone has been raving about? I actually said “I. Don’t. Care!” out loud when I read it. I was that annoyed.In conclusion, I will say once again that I’m not trying to discourage anyone from reading the book – as I said, a lot of people I know loved it and are giving it 5 stars, so it might just be a me thing. Go ahead, and make up your own mind about it, and hopefully you won’t be as angry about it as I am. As I said, I will give the next book a chance since the overall quality can only go up from here, and I sincerely hope it will.EDIT: The more I think about it, the more I wonder if the release of this book was rushed due to Xiran Jay Zhao going viral on the Internet and the publishers wanted to capitalize on their popularity as soon as possible. That does make me hope they'll spend more time on the next book given they're more "established" now, because as I said... I really don't see how this could get any worse, lol.