This review was originally posted onAddicted To RomanceSummaryGabrielle Maxwell, is a photographer of gothic and abandoned buildings and is starting to increase in popularity. She is not used to the attention. On a night of celebration, she and her friends go to an infamous club that is becoming all the rage. From the first moment she enters, she feels uncomfortable and has an uneasy feeling. Her friends seem to be enjoying it all, but all Gabrielle can think about is the peace and quiet of her home. On her way out, she is the only witness to a horrific murder, and she takes pictures. But the police can't see what she does, and believe she is insane. Lucan Thorne, is a breed warrior, and one of the oldest of his kind and also considered to be royalty. But Lucan fights along side the rest of his warriors to bring an end to the rogues who kill without thought. Lucan wants better for their race and for the future of their children. But when he finds that a human woman is targeted by his enemies, he will have no choice but to bring her into his dangerous world. Lucan senses something different about Gabrielle and learns that she is a breedmate. Which is very rare, a human woman that is capable of being resistant to their "charms" and able to bear children and mate with one of their kind. Lucan is drawn to Gabrielle, she is different than most human women, and despite the danger that surrounds them....even though he doesn't deserve it, he needs her and wants her as his mate.Plot and Story LineKiss At Midnightis the first in the series and the first book I have read from this author. I have had my eye on this author for quite a while. But I hadn't yet picked up anything from her, even thoughI do love a good vampire romance and boy did I love this book. It had everything that I look for in a paranormal romance. What is interesting is that I picked this one up at the library but didn't plan on it. I just glanced at a shelf, saw this series, and picked the first book. This story starts off with a quick pace, and I was swept away by the story from the first page. It picks up with Gabrielle at a gallery showing of her work. Gabrielle is different from most heroines I have read. She is quiet and reserved, she likes to be on her own unless she is with her close group of friends. She tends to break the law to get the perfect photo. I loved her strength and her tenacity and she has this certain view of the world that is so different and I loved how unique her character is. Not your average heroine yet she was so easy to relate with on a human level. She has certain characteristics I felt close to.Maybe she should cut the guy a little slack, maybe Thorne had been a no-show because something bad happened to him on the job.What if he'd been injured in the line of duty and didn't come by as promised because he was incapacitated in some way? Maybe he hadn't called to apologize or to explain his absence because he physically couldn't.Right. And maybe she had checked her brain into her panties from the second she first laid eyes on the man.”Now lets talk about our hero of the story. Dear Dear Lucan...how I adore thee!! Lucan is quite the alpha, he is the leader, a protector and willing to sacrifice himself for his warriors. He fights with those men he respects and even loves. Lucan is a bit self deprecating at times, he underestimates his own worth, but he is a fighter and won't rest until the rogues are gone. The romance between these two is steamy and slow burning at times. Its not a insta love. They definitely have instant chemistry, from the first chapter they are drawn to one another.“God, was this what Savannah meant when she said the blood-bond would enhance lovemaking? Gabrielle looked at Lucan with pure carnal need, hardly knowing where to begin with him. She wanted to devour him, worship him, use him up. Slake the coiling need that was churning inside of her.“You should have warned me you were feeding me an aphrodisiac.”Lucan grinned up at her. “And spoil the surprise?”“Laugh it up, vampire.” Gabrielle arched a brow, then gripped his stiff erection and sheathed him to the hilt in one long move. “You just promised me eternity, you know. I can make you live to regret it.”“Yeah?” The word was more of a strangled groan as she rocked on him, making his hips buck sharply beneath her.Eyes blazing now, he gave her a glimpse of fang as he smiled, clearly enjoying his torture. “Breedmate, I’m going to love seeing you try.”But when it comes to the actual emotional side of their relationship, that takes a bit slower to form and develop. There are secrets and misunderstandings and a bit of miscommunication. However, Lucan and Gabrielle see each other as they truly are and understand each other in a way that no other does. I liked that they have a bond with each other even if they don't realize it. The supporting characters were quite fun. I loved the other warriors, they have great humor and have this energy that is contagious.“Jesus," Dante interjected when the heavy quiet in the vehicle seemed endless. "All this touchy feely is making me itchy to kill something. How about we quit jerking each other off and go blow the roof off this mutha?”Then we have the villain or groups of villains. Now these are pretty bad and evil creatures. They are vampires but are rogues. Meaning, they don't care about consequences or how many humans they destroy. But the leader has a connection to Lucan I totally didn't see coming. Then we have a betrayal, and a death that was so heartbreaking it brings tender emotions to the surface. There was passion, suspense, danger, tearjerking upheaval and a story that makes me crave the second book!! Can't wait for my next trip to the library.The CoverI love the style of this cover. Its a bit similar to Rebecca Zanetti's vampire series as well. I like the contrast of the yellow and midnight blue. We have the imagery of the sexual tension and then below we have the sense of danger and a graveyard...spooky.Overall ViewKiss Of Midnightis a stimulating story of sensual desire, enigmatic characters, and a riveting plot! THRILLS ON EVERY PAGE!!Midnight Breed SeriesKiss of Midnight (1)Kiss of Crimson (2)Midnight Awakening (3)Midnight Rising (4)Veil of Midnight (5)Ashes of Midnight (6)Shades of Midnight (7)Taken By Midnight (8)Deeper Than Midnight (9)Darker After Midnight (10)Edge of Dawn (11)Crave The Night (12)