This book is difficult - it's a difficult premise to pull off, and a difficult read, and difficult to assess.For one thing, Girolamo Savonarola is not a pleasant character. Walton manages to make him fairly sympathetic, but he's one of history's biggest self-righteous assholes who did a lot of damage in the name of "the greater good." So spending a whole book with his character is daring. On top of that, Savonarola's world was very different from ours, and it takes a lot of work to get into his mindset to understand why he thought the things he thought. Walton is fairly successful here, although she misses a lot of nuance. If you aren't already reasonably familiar with a lot of the people and religious doctrines of late medieval/early Renaissance Europe, there are a lot of details that you're going to miss or find confusing. Despite all of this, I think Walton does an impressive job of making the reader want Savonarola to succeed.The first half of the book is a slog - it's a pretty detailed account of the last 6 years of Savonarola's life, and there are a lot of characters with similar names and it's hard to keep them all straight and Italian Renaissance politics are bewilderingly complex. I thought about giving up several times during the first half. Then there's a major change halfway through the book that suddenly makes it far more interesting. I wish Walton had been able to make that surprise happen earlier, or provide more hints about it, or do something to make it clear that this isn't just a biography of Savonarola.I wish this book had been written by a better theologian. Ultimately, it's a story of a quest to find God. There was room in here for some really profound statement about forgiveness, redemption, the nature of love, and the unity of all creation, but the theological potential isn't fulfilled.The rest of this review is full of spoilers.When we finally get to that surprise halfway through, and we learn that Savonarola is actually a demon (ha, take that, asshole!), the book suddenly gets far more interesting.Unfortunately, I found the end really unfulfilling. Naturally, you expect him to try a different approach every time he lives his life until he gets it right, a la Groundhog Day. You expect the "correct" solution to be something theologically profound, something that perhaps takes several lifetimes to learn.... but it turns out that all he had to do was just cooperate with another demon, and he only had opportunities to do that in two of his previous lives, which makes all of those other lives seem pretty pointless, and in the end it isn't really clear that he learned much from the experience of cooperation or from all of his other lives. It also isn't clear what happens to Crookback - the end is very sudden and very short. Do the two of them live in harmony together? How did Crookback know that cooperation was the answer, and why didn't he just say so the first time he had an opportunity to do so? It would have been nice to see more exploration of what prevented him from cooperating with Crookback, and what change needed to happen in his heart (other than desperation) to make him finally cooperate (the obvious answer is the pride he struggled with in every lifetime - maybe a life where he finally learns to give up pride would have been more satisfying). After an entire book of describing the pain of being separated from God, at least a few sentences about what it is like to be united with God would have been nice. Does he actually manage to harrow Hell as he intended? Was it God who put the Stone of Titurel in his path, and if so, why?