the most famous dramione fic on ao3!! i tried reading it 2x before but never made it past the first few paragraphs but... idk why lol i think it was the prose? i gave it a second chance bc i'm now used to the shitty prose fanfic authors have + it's summer break and i was bored and wow. i could sort of see why it was hyped up so much because the first 60 chapters were super entertaining and interesting.i only have a few problems with the start, such as voldemort conveniently forgetting about hermione, the last of the 3 biggest thorns in his side, for 16 months until he has to be reminded. like let's all be serious his ass would never forget LMFAO not to mention how the entire plot falls apart if you think about it for over 2 seconds. this entire war was fought so they could genocide a certain group of people whom they hate for being dirty and stealing their magic etc etc but now they're like, "great idea guys let's have kids with these people we despise so much and think of as trash!" like... what? the whole point of being a "pureblood" is to have the aforementioned pure blood, which you keep pure by. you know. not procreating with non-purebloods.there's also the fact that WOW this is super dark. at the start i was like !??!?! the entire time bc i had no idea how this man draco was going to redeem himself, and i was intrigued to find out how exactly that would happen! but the way his redemption went really disappointed me. there's nothing wrong with a dark story, don't get me wrong, it's just the way this was all handled at the end.but before i get into that... the romance itself starts out so weird and contrived? i'm talking about the ACTUAL start of their relationship. draco hasn’t seen her in 6 years. let me repeat that.HE HAS NOT SEEN HER IN 6 YEARS. THEY HAVE NOT INTERACTED AT ALL.and OUT OF NOWHERE he is like yes i want hermione as my whore give her to me now. ????why does he even want her????he has absolutely no reason to give a shit about her and this is just an insanely weird request with no logic behind it. they DO NOT KNOW EACH OTHER.the only reason as to why it's here is because the author wanted her main couple to get touchy-feely with each other without actually having to build up tension and romance between them. why not start out their relationship by giving him the runes & make it so the reason why he reaches out to the order is because he wants one of their healers because he can't find any other healer who can help him and... stuff? that makes a whole lot more sense than this super contrived startdraco is so fucking weird too. like, telling hermione to strip and bang him on their 3rd meeting after 6 years? in what world does that make a girl like you LMFAO i was heated for her when she had to apologize for not wanting to do that afterwards. that's so unattractive and slimy like you can't even defend that incel shitanother thing that doesn't make sense is that she cries a lot about how she’ll be owned by draco after the war but earlier it’s pointedly stated he didn’t force her into an Unbreakable Vow. there is NOTHING forcing her to maintain this deal after the war’s done LMFAO he’d be tried and she could easily take that chance to expose him and get him off her back. but for the sake of moronic drama, draco and hermione and other people in the order who know of the arrangement have the IQs of flip-flops.the fact that she's a virgin also leaves a bad taste in my mouth. i hate this trope of virgin fl's x experienced ml's either way but it's worse in this fic because her one and only body is draco and then he ends up raping her ~30 times. like hellooooo?? even if he wasn’t happy about it he’s still a rapist. a rapist is defined as a noun, meaning a person who commits rape. what is rape? it is defined as: "the crime, typically committed by a man, of forcing another person to have sexual intercourse with the offender against their will." or another, a verb [with object]: (typically of a man) force (another person) to have sexual intercourse with the offender against their will. draco fits both those definitions!back to my main point here. i hate that the only person she’s experienced is her rapist. but of course, it's a law in fiction that the fl has to remain pure and virginal for the experienced and hot ml - even when he's her literal rapist.not to mention how NO ONE IS TALKING ABOUT HOW DRACO HAS SLEPT WITH PROSTITUTES? UM... LMFAO? like the author even went out of her way to confirm this because she thinks it's so so so cute and fuzzy that hermione is the first person he's slept with where there's actual love! girl get your dumb fucking head out of your ass there is nothing you can say to justify a man frequenting prostitutes 😭😭😭 the vast, vast majority of prostitutes aren't prostitutes because they want to be and because of the monetary aspect it will never be 100% consensual. tldr he was a sick fuck even before he was like "damn i gotta rape my gf? oh well ig LOL"before i really get into the meat of this fic, there's also some cringy moments i just couldn't deal with. for example, there's a moment right before she gets her memories back where he kisses her, she kisses back, he clowns her for it, she cries, and then starts to slam her head into a window to kill herself. i know this is a dark story and it's super duper sad and whatever but i was like ??? am i meant to take that seriously? read that back to me and tell me that's not hilarious like WHAT. another smaller one is when she was like "i am a tree" when astoria was watching her. shit had me laughingmoving on...time skip to when he sees her again, and with hindsight, i really don't understand why he’s unnecessarily a bitch to her at the start. i'm supposed to believe that he was obsessively in love with her and promised to be her protector 24/7 but when it actually matters he's being a massive dick and makes fun of how he rapes her? the whole "voldy will see it all so he has to pretend" excuse doesn't work for me because literally what stops him from just not speaking to her at all and excusing it by saying he's disgusted by mudbloods and doesn't want to interact with them? the author wants to say it's because draco wants her to hate him which literally makes 0 sense because.... he rapes her. constantly. she'll hate him either way.but the author was dropped on the head as a child and so you have hermione batting her eyes at draco and swooning over how he looks like a fallen angel BEFORE she has ANY of her memories and right after he's just raped her twice. what the FUCK? i get that he's the male lead, but he just fucking raped her. it's so disgusting and i can't believe no one else has mentioned this beforethe entire rape thing had me like 😐 because there's such an easy way around it. like this man is supposedly head over heels in love with hermione but he didn't try and find a way around having to rape her? seriously? idk about you but if i was in his shoes i would've exhausted every possibility to not have to rape the girl i love. one of the ways is pretty gross but i thought of it the second i read chapter 7; jack off in a lil cup, wingardium leviosa the spunk, send it straight into her 🐱, and be done with it! no need for rape. and if voldy has any complaints, BAM hit him with the "i don't want to defile myself with a mudblood." IT'S THAT FUCKING SIMPLE. the point is not to rape your slaves, it's to get them pregnant.OR. he even mentions — as he teaches hermione occlumency — that if someone tries to legilemines or whatever her she can conjure up a fake memory. why didn't he teach her to do that so they could just fool old voldy?this man did not try hard enough at all. the fact that in the past all he did was ramble about how we was gonna take care of her… girl does raping her and talking down and mocking her when she’s at her lowest sound like taking care of her?this man did not at all try to get out of it and. like. if you were told to rape a total stranger, you'd try your utmost to get out of it, wouldn't you? raping someone is one of the worst things you could ever do to another person. you'd go above and beyond to not have to touch that other person even if you didn't even know they existed until that moment. and if you're forced to try and rape your LOVER, that's a different story altogether; you'd be desperate to not hurt them in any way and you'd definitely exert more effort and resources to not rape them. but draco doesn't do anything and i was like does this dude genuinely WANT to rape her?the rape isn't even handled well. it is literally just an accessory to make the story more tragic, with it's only purpose being that and to beget a dramione child. when hermione got her memories back and was angry at draco, i was like !!!! yes!!!!! do not forget how his fake ass treated you!!!! i was so vindicated but that is literally all we get and after that moment all his rape and maltreatment of her disappears into thin air and both hermione and draco forget all about it.the entire time i read this story, i was just thinking, "how the fuck can you even have a happy and healthy relationship after all this?" well, apparently, you get one by pretending draco never raped hermione or did anything to her at all. bitches defend his ass too as if feeling bad about it all makes him innocent.if i have to kill someone and i'm sad about it but i kill them anyway i'm still a murderer. feeling bad does not take back your actions LMFAO like you still did the shit you didshe forgives him asap, with her fuck ass asking him, “how’ve you been? :3” you know what he’s BEEN doing? raping you. like??? WHAT IS WRONG WITH YOU?? and then all she does is get sad over his marriage and how she wants to touch him and how she'll never see him again? i wanted to smack that woman so hard. i was so heated that my face was just contorted into a disgusted expression the whole time i read scenes where hermione pined pathetically after him.suddenly, the months of abuse are gone and have evaporated from her empty skull. the reason why? the writer can't linger on it. if she does, draco will be painted in too bad a light and then there will be no happy ending. so once rape has served its purpose of bringing enough grimdarkness and sadness to the narrative, she discards it completely. you can do this with other things, but rape? something so serious and real for so many people? with a topic like that, you HAVE to be adept and careful with how you handle it, but senlinyu was just like. nope! don't care!and the absolute fucking NERVE of him to still be a dick to her after everything he’s done to her. BITCH. i was so pissed like you do not get to be a piece of shit to the woman you’ve raped and given an unwanted child to. that man should've been at her feet, licking the ground she walks on the entire time. i wanted to cry out of anger when i saw hermione whining after draco despite everything. like i had to pause and walk around my room when her stupid ass was like “noooo ur mine:(“ STAND THE FUCK UP WOMANand none of the fans of this shit fic wanna talk about how he goes out of his way to demean her when he doesn't need to. this man who's supposedly in love with her, to the woman who saved his useless fucking life. are you serious? there is ZERO excuse "oh he wants to show he hates her" he can do that by just making a face and covering his nose and being like "ew filth" LMFAO like? demeaning her AND raping her = unforgivable. literally unforgivable. there is no excuse.when her ass told him to stay. AND SHE APOLOGIZES TO HIM? GIRL. HE RAPED YOU WHAT THE ABSOLUTE FUCK ARE YOU APOLOGIZING FOR? HE SHOULD BE THE ONE GROVELING HOLY SHITUGH my entire point is that the rape has no lasting ramifications on either of the characters. like, great! he has somewhat of an excuse for his actions! doesn’t mean that there shouldn’t be any consequences. like.hermione can still understand why he had to do what he did but still be wary of him. just because she understands doesn't mean that magically she won't feel the effects of his abuse anymore. just because he had a flimsy excuse for what he did doesn't take away from the fact that he DID rape and abuse her.she should not be so cozied up to him bc imagining the man who won’t shut up about he’s gonna take care of you rape you 30 times? LMFAOsenlinyu wants to be like "no... no i didnt glamorize rape omg how could anyone say that..." you can say whatever you want girl like the proof is right here. think it bodes pretty dismally for us as a society that this fic is so popular, especially because it's popularity is coming in a time where we seem to be sliding further into conservatism and media that brutalizes & sexualizes female pain.a central theme of this fic is the effects of trauma and we get into a lot of nitty gritty detail over it; it is not a chapter of manacled unless hermione is crying or having a seizure. senlinyu has previously established how willing she is to delve deep into the psychological effects of everything the character's have gone through, but when it matters most, we get... nothing. going through what hermione went through would give her lots of trauma to work through. you can't just transition from being absolutely terrified and disgusted by your abuser to being head over heels overnight. she gets panic attacks and seizures from having to touch grass (i'm not kidding, she fell to her knees because she had to go outside) but when it comes to her rapist she's totally fine! that's absolutely not how it works. even if she loves him, she should have to deal with the fact that the man she loved and trusted did so many horrible things to her.the writer has already constructed these rules for trauma and mental health earlier on in the story but she ignores all this when everything is unveiled. hermione LITERALLY was spasming and flailing around on the floor because she was too scared to go outside, but to have her show even the slightest amount of discomfort around her rapist and abuser? perish the thought! that's so completely unreasonable!it just oversimplifies everything they've gone through so they can have their HEA and it doesn't feel earned in the slightest. like i said earlier, the rape is only there to add another sprinkle of tragedy. it's like how chefs add parsley as garnish to a dish. when you choose to center your story around such a heavy topic like rape you should execute it a way that makes sense, not trivialize it like the author does here.give me at least something! like, why can she kiss this man so easily and have sex with him again so fast? i was at a loss for words when i read it for the first time because this man was abusing her and making her life hell for 6 months but it's conveniently glossed over because the writer knows good and damn well that a relationship like this would NEVER be able to work out. and there's nothing on how she’s having a literal rape baby? ginny is the only sensible character in this entire goddamn story holy shit i hate her in canon but when she was calling draco out i was like yes... YES SPEAK YOUR TRUTH! DON'T LET THEM SILENCE YOU!!!! her ass deserved all the glory hermione didn't get that's for damn sure. hermione's stupid ass deserved to be erased from history and the author thought she ate her ending up but i think the historians did everyone in the wizarding world a solid. and the fact that dramione just have a kid who interacts normally with the wizarding world nullifies this ending because nothing stops the child from just publishing a tell-all memoir about her parents. don't even tell me the wizarding world wouldn't eat that shit up because this is the single most popular het fic ever published on ao3. but ofc you have senlinyu doing mental gymnastics to explain why akshually their child wouldn't want to clear their name because she wants to have her sad ending.the only reason i finished this was to see if the other surrogate girls got their revenge, and... they don't! there's a sentence that stuck with me because it was so haunting and it was when the death eaters were all talking about their surrogates and one was like "oh i broke mine completely LOL i bend a finger and she's ready for me and she loves to blow me now and i make her do it everyday at breakfast" girl i was sick to my stomach reading that but they don't even get that. just more tragedy pornmy last thing is that i really think this fic could've greatly benefited from a few chapters from draco's pov. i don't need a whole thing where he details his entire life story, but just his reaction to seeing the girl he loves begging him not to hurt their child and having seizures over it, having to hold her down and let voldemort destroy some of her most treasured memories, watching her deteriorate in front of his eyes. there is so much potential angst and character building you could milk from it all but we get NOTHING. especially since what happened to his mom traumatized him so much and now history is repeating itself with the only other person he’s ever loved???!?! like hello this is such a missed opportunity!!!!! i would've thrown this fic a bone and at least given two stars if we'd gotten draco pov chapstl;dr read if you like rape being used as a shiny little accessory!