(A-) 82%| Very GoodNotes:On loving books, kinetic looks, being self-reliant, brains-over-brawn, small but no pawn, its heroine's mentally giant.*Check out progress updates for detailed commentary:Progress updates:01/25/2025- Preamble(1) There are two versions of this eBook at my library, and as much as I detest the big Netflix logo defacing the cover, this is the original text, not the 2022 altered text that removes "offensive" language.- Regardless of how you feel about the controversy, this is the version written by no one else but Roald Dahl, and so this is the only version I will ever read.01/29/2025- Chapters 1–5(1) First of all, this has a ton of illustrations! At least compared to "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory," which I recently finished.- Probably because illustrations for the latter were done retroactively, and along with other books for visually-uniform new editions, so far less time would have been put into that compared to a new release.- I don't think Quentin Blake started illustrating Dahl books until the late 1970s.(2) "[Her] parents looked upon Matilda in particular as nothing more than a scab. A scab is something you have to put up with until the time comes when you can pick it off and flick it away."- This story definitely has a juvenile tone, which makes sense coming from a four year-old's perspective.- Not necessarily potty humor, but more lowbrow in a Dav Pilkey sort of way.- There's also talk of bunions and nose-picking shortly thereafter.(3) As with "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory," the correct and regular use of "nor" pleases me to no end.(4) This is a very quaint-feeling book, at least to start. Before all the hijinks begin, it's all about Matilda's reading routine, which no doubt strikes a chord with its likely book-inclined readership.- Not only are specific authors and names of books mentioned, it includes quite a long library book reading list, which I'm sure has been the focus of many a book club or reading challenge.- It also goes into a fair bit of detail explaining libraries and how to use them.- Television, on the other hand, is demonized as a kind of forced activity by her cruel and boorish parents.(5) The language here is very distinctly British English. Much more so than "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory" which was regionally ambiguous albeit still linguistically British.- I don't know if Aylesbury is a real place, but the name just screams rural England.- Pounds and pence are also explicitly mentioned, whereas "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory" notably used dollars and cents.(6) "[Matilda] was not quite tall enough to reach things around the kitchen, but she kept a small box in the outhouse which she brought in and stood on in order to get whatever she wanted."- I can only presume the box serves the same purpose in the outhouse as it does in the kitchen.- The outhouse, along with a nearby sawmill, just underscores this as a distinctly rural setting.(7) "'No one ever got rich being honest,' the father said. 'Customers are there to be diddled.'"- Yeah, I can only assume, this being a children's book, that "diddled" was far less perverse a term when this was written than it is nowadays.- Alternatively, "diddled" could be less severe a term in Britain than in North America. The dictionary does describe it as "chiefly British."(8) I've noticed that Dahl really likes to hyperbolize and reiterate character traits.- The father here is an immoral and dishonest man, which is hammered home almost ad nauseam. We're made to believe he has no positive characteristics. That he destroys a library book, especially to the reading audience, is treated as sacrilege and irredeemable.- Matilda, on the other hand, is all respect, patience and quiet pastimes. Her diminutive stature is brought up repeatedly and only underscores her total helplessness and thereby justifies her subsequent mischief.(9) "'Filth,' Mr. Wormwood said. 'If it's by an American it's certain to be filth. That's all they write about.'"- All I'll say is that "Fifty Shades of Grey" and its sequels were written by a Brit.01/31/2025- Chapters 6–10(1) While this hasn't yet shown any inkling of fantasy nor the supernatural, it's nonetheless imbued with a great sense of improbability and wonder.- Matilda being able to read and do advanced mathematics in her head is treated like having magical powers.(2) This also uses a lot of Biblical language, which only adds to its sense of mystery.- Hortensia: "Weare the crusaders ... and the Trunchbull is the Prince of Darkness, the Foul Serpent, the Fiery Dragon..."- It's interesting how Miss Trunchbull isn't only described as akin to (or literally) Satan, but in masculine terms as well: "the Trunchbull" not Miss Trunchbull, and "the Prince" not princess or anything close to feminine.- Additionally, we have the children attending prayers and scripture lessons, and allusions/references to Moses parting the Red Sea and "the Day of Judgment."(3) "'Get me a mirror!' the father yelled. 'Don't just stand there shrieking at me! Get me a mirror!'"- Reminds me of that scene inBatman1989 after the Joker has his reconstructive surgery. Though, I doubt either could have been inspiration for the other since they came out about the same time.- I presume it's the mother shrieking here, though I can't entirely discount the brother Michael.(4) "'Be careful!' shrieked the mother. 'Now look what you've done! That's my best Elizabeth Arden face powder!'"- Gee, you know, I'll never see the words "Elizabeth Arden" again without Prince Harry coming to mind. That brand's ruined forever!- An awful lot of shrieking in this household. The word's used four times in Chapter 6 alone. Though, it may just be a character trait of the mother.(5) "[Miss Honey's] body was so slim and fragile one got the feeling that if she fell over she would smash into a thousand pieces, like a porcelain figure."- Like how Matilda's repeatedly described as being tiny, Miss Honey is also described in diminutive terms and therefore immediately sympathetic—incapable of being a physical aggressor.- Miss Trunchbull is described as the mirror opposite: "She was a gigantic holy terror, a fierce tyrannical monster who frightened the life out of the pupils and teachers alike."- Just from these opening descriptions alone, it's crystal clear how we're supposed to feel about these two teachers.(6) "Looking at [Miss Trunchbull], you got the feeling that this was someone who could bend iron bars and tear telephone directories in half."- I have a feeling that in the future "telephone directories" may require a footnote.- If not Gen-Z, subsequent generations simply won't have a clue—probably about either word. Roald Dahl may as well be Shakespeare.(7) Miss Trunchbull wears "bottle-green" breeches, which, if memory serves me right, is exactly what Willy Wonka is described as wearing.- Were bottle-green pants a thing back in the day? If not, I can only conclude that it's intentional as either something Dahl-specific or (albeit far less likely) a direct allusion toCharlie and the Chocolate Factory.(8) Mrs. Wormwood: "A girl should think about making herself look attractive so she can get a good husband later on. Looks is more important than books, Miss Hunky."- How veryGame of Thrones, a positively medieval mindset.- Everything about that last sentence, from the message to using the incorrect copular verb to calling Miss Honey by the wrong name just screams superficial, crass and uneducated.- Additionally, Mr. Wormwood calls Miss Honey "Miss Hawkes" and "Miss Harris," which is very Horace Slughorn of him/them.- From Miss Trunchbull to Matilda's parents, this book's villains don't care about education, particularly reading.(9) We get blatant child abuse here, with Miss Trunchbull literally throwing kids around by the hair.- A scene that likely horrifies children and parents alike.- It's yet another example of the book's "brains versus brawn" duality.(10) "Mr. Wormwood ... [cast] a look of such simpering sloppiness at his wife it would have made a cat sick."- I've got to disagree with Dahl's characterization here. There's nothing wrong with going gaga over one's own wife.- Dahl makes it seem like Mr. Wormwood is crazy or delusional for thinking his wife is better looking than Miss Honey. Misogynist though he may be, at least he's a monogamy-minded misogynist.- One man's simp is another man's hopeless romantic.02/05/2025- Chapters 11–16(1) Matilda develops magic/telekinetic powers quite late in the book.- It's interesting how Dahl held onto this as a kind of end reveal, tying her mental magic to her overall mental acumen. It implies that her advanced reading and math abilities were superpowers all along.- Not exactly Harry Potter, though it does involve lightning imagery.(2) Miss Trunchbull: "As for the cake, it was my own private stock! ... You don't think for one minute I'm going to eat the filth I give to you? That cake was made from real butter and real cream!"- Huh, I can think of plenty butter substitutes, but what "filth" would stand in for cream? I don't know that soy or almond milk would have the same baking properties, and may actually be a good deal more costly. Possibly just water.- Frankly, I'm shocked the school serves the students cake at all, albeit substandard. I mean, I never got cake with my school meals.(3) Bruce Bogtrotter is described as: "An eleven-year-old boy who was decidedly large and round..."- Well, if that didn't create an explicit mental image, the "trotter" in his name outright suggests he's pig-like.- I think that's the much more likely implication of the name, at least relative to the somewhat oxymoronic alternative of a person (somehow) trotting in a bog.(4) "The Trunchbull paused to wipe a fleck of froth from her lips."- We get a lot of humans being compared to animals in this book. In addition to Miss Trunchbull looking positively rabid here, she has "bull" in her name.- Notably, or perhaps haphazardly, Dahl describes her as a "her" this time. She's usually denied any feminine descriptors or attributes.(5) "The only thing [Bruce Bogtrotter] knew for certain was that the law forbade the Trunchbull to hit him with the riding-crop..."- Wait, so throwing girls around by the hair isn't against the law?(6) "The boy was by now so full of cake he was like a sackful of wet cement and you couldn't have hurt him with a sledge-hammer."- Fun story, last time I went back to the Philippines I was allowed to pet Prony, the world's largest python. It felt like a sack full of Jell-O. So, while such squishy or gelatinous physiologies do exist in nature, I doubt it applies to humans.- I mean, cake doesn't exactly pad or thicken your skull... though it might possibly dull some pain receptors.(7) Miss Trunchbull to Matilda: "I shall make absolutely sure you are sent to a reformatory for delinquent girls for the minimum of forty years!"- Possible, though at that point you'd really be stretching the definition of "girls."(8) "'You have put a... a... a crocodile in my drinking water!' the Trunchbull yelled back. 'There is no worse crime in the world against a Headmistress!'"- Aside from direct physical assault, perhaps so. Touché.(9) We get more Biblical allusions, references to the miracles of Jesus and also the first day of Creation.- I know I shouldn't be too shocked, but you just don't see this sort of open Bible talk in today's secular literature, let alone treating it as gospel truth.(10) Re: Miss Honey: "These were wise words from a wise old bird, but Matilda was too steamed up to see it that way."- "Old bird"? she's in her early twenties... which I suppose is quite old from a child's point of view.(11) "Margarine, Matilda thought. [Miss Honey] really must be poor."- It's interesting how it's not the dilapidated shack, nor the lack of any furniture or major appliances, nor Miss Honey having to bathe from a bucket, but having to settle for margarine instead of butter that brings it all home that Miss Honey is poor.- It's actually a really poignant moment where, Matilda realizes that Miss Honey lives all alone in a run-down shack without running water, and how much more comfortable and objectively better off her own life is... specific family members notwithstanding.- I don't know, I'm kind of disappointed Miss Honey's choice of bread spread isn't honey.*character limitClick here for the rest