Reviewed for AudioGals.Narrated by Nora Achrati & a full cast* – see belowSweep in Peace is the second book in the Innkeeper Chronicles which tell the story of the adventures of Dina Demille, an “innkeeper” in a universe where inns are kind-of magic B&Bs which host all manner of creatures and beings from across the universe. While I think it’s possible that someone could start the series here, I think the book works much better with the background of the previous book, Clean Sweep. There’s a lot of worldbuilding in book 1 which is only briefly recapped in Sweep in Peace.In book 1 we got the beginnings of a romance between Dina and Sean Evans, a wolf shifter and former military man, who work together to stop an assassin. Sean, while present in critical ways in this story, is not strongly featured and for the most part, the romance doesn’t really advance here. The Innkeeper Chronicles are fantasy books though, not romance, so I didn’t expect that the relationship would be a major focus. (I gather that there is romantic progress in future books but it would be a stretch to think of the series as romance.)Sweep in Peace introduces some new characters, most notably George Camarine, an arbitrator whose job is to settle intergalactic disputes. He asks Dina to host peace talks at Gertrude Hunt (her inn) to try and end a war which has raged for 10 years on the planet Nexus. The combatants are the Holy Cosmic Anocracy (vampires), the Merchants of Nexus (led by Nuan Cee (a bipedal fox-like creature) and the Otrakars (aka the Hope-Crushing Horde) – the “scourge of the galaxy” who are genetically engineered humans. It’s extremely dangerous for Dina to host the arbitration but it’s also very lucrative – both financially and magically. Gertrude Hunt renews itself and grows by utilising some of the magic of its guests. Too few guests and the inn dies. With the money a successful arbitration could bring, Dina will be able to survive for months and do some remodelling as well. In the end, she really has no choice; there are not enough (or any, really) guests banging on her door.Most of the action is confined to the inn’s grounds as the arbitration progresses, with key insights offered by Caldenia (she’s so interesting!). The plot takes that sense of closeness and uses it to ramp up the tension.There’s some light relief with the addition of Orro, a temperamental Quillonian chef with (Quillonian because of his porcupine-like quills) as well.Even though Dina is not responsible for wrangling the parties to a peace agreement, she’s in the thick of things and her magic is pivotal to the eventual outcome.There were some surprises I didn’t see coming but which made the story that much more enjoyable.I admit I got just a teensy bit lost toward the end but generally I was engrossed and entertained all the way through.The narration, again, is fantastic. Like with Clean Sweep, I occasionally found some of the music a bit intrusive but the cast performances were all extremely good. The full cast production by Graphic Audio is high quality and it’s clear that everyone involved paid attention – both to characterisation and pronunciation and to the story itself.I like all kinds of audiobooks but there is something really special about this format – it’s like a radio play with sound effects and a different actor for each role.Nora Achrati does most of the heavy lifting here given she’s the point-of-view character, but notable mentions must also go to Jon Vertullo as George and Scott McCormick as Orro. I don’t know exactly who voiced the Khanum (leader of the Otrakar delegation) but I was very impressed by her as well. There was not one performer who phoned it in though – all of them were excellent.Having started the series by listening to the Graphic Audio versions, I can’t see myself choosing any other format for the rest of it.Full Cast: Nora Achrati as Dina Demille, Jonathan Lee Taylor as Klaus Demille, Jon Vertullo as George Camarine, Christopher Walker as Nuan Cee, and Scott McCormick as Orro. With Karen Novack, Alex Hill-Knight, Jenna Sharpe, Stewart Crank, Lily Beacon, Kay Eluvian, James Lewis, Gabriel Michael, Shanta Parasuraman, John Kielty, Ken Jackson, Alejandro Ruiz, Ryan H. Reid, Lucy Symons, Torian Brackett, Shravan Amin, Wyn Delano, Elias Khalil, Steven Carpenter, Terence Aselford, Katie Leigh, Rose Elizabeth Supan, Mort Shelby, Carolyn Kashner, and Bradley Foster Smith