Alright I want to get some minor quibbles out of the way before I go into a detailed analysis of the major problems I had with this book and a lot of grimdark in general.- Book is slow and boring. One storyline dominates the others. I dreaded picking it up.- Author hates fat people and small eyes. It was a weird compulsive quirk! He also had a serious case of Disney Eyes in regard to “good” characters.- Considering this is meant to be morally grey “grimdark” fantasy there are clearly drawn lines between the “good” and “bad” guys.But what I really want to speak about is the representations of women inBladesparticularly, and grimdark fantasy generally. I’m also going to touch on how the book handles POC and LGBTQ characters.Bitches and WhoresI had so many problems with the way this book handled female characters. I’m going to highlight a few examples. These aren’t meant to be all- encompassing but they do providetextual evidencefor my complaints. I want to be really clear that I’m not just talking about characterization. I’m talking about unconscious bias in the writing that routinely reveals itself in the way female characters relate to one another and the world, and in how they are internally described by POV characters. I’m also talking about the amount of time they get on the page, and the way their character arcs are handled. These are separate issues from just “the story”. It was these aspects of the writing that rankled me the most.Physical DescriptionsWomen are described by their breasts, physical attractiveness and Disney eyes. I wouldn’t mind this if men were likewise described but the only men who get detailed descriptions are the “fat, disgusting” ones. In Valyn’s first scene, surrounded by blood, gore and murder victims and in the middle of a training exercise Valyn spends time monologueing about how sexy Lin is. A few chapters later here is how Valyn describes Gwenna:“… tempted by the bright green eyes and flaming red hair, by the supple, curvaceous body that she did her best to hide…”Argh! It is gratuitous and constant.Their personalities are also problematic. Girls are either dangerous like Gwenna with her terrible temper, or pathetic, like Rianne, or hopelessly inept like Lin and Adare.CharacterisationAdareAdare is one of the siblings but is only given about 6 chapters in the whole novel. She is constantly compared to others and her difficultly as a women in a man’s world is obsessed over. The author sets up a hyper-sexist world.“It is no slight to you, Baxter Pane had argued, staring at her with those rheumy eyes of his, (eye obsession strikes again!) but women are not suited to the Ministry. They are too … fickle, too easily transported by their emotions.”Ok, I can understand that. But then he unconsciously characterised her in sexist way that confirms the bias.She bit into a fingernail, then remembered her post, the hundreds watching, and returned the hand forcefully to her lap. Adare let the words trail off, retaking her seat with as much dignity as she could muster. Adare swallowed a curse. And here I am, allowing myself to be transported by my emotions.She pretty much confirms all the criticisms and concerns people have about her and I'm not even sure the author realises this.LinI have a real issue withlove interests who are sexually assaulted and then fridged to provide impetus for a male POV character. It is so disrespectful.Consider this scenario:Your brave hero is a warrior. She comes home to discover her loving husband has been raped and killed by her enemy. Furious and grief stricken she swears to punish the people who did this to her husband. And if she flirts with a few sexy young men along the way, well that doesn’t diminish her cause, a girl has needs you know…Or how bout this one:Your James Bond stand- in is captured by the enemy. He is ruthlessly tortured and raped until he manages to escape. He swears vengeance. He will bring forth unholy terror on the people who hurt him. But to succeed he will need the help of a sexy female friend. Can he learn to love again? Can he trust her to touch his body with kindness after suffering with this isolating trauma for so long?Do you find these laughable? Possibly offensive? How would you have felt if the scenario inBladeshad looked like this:“I should be focusing on my bladework, and all I can think about is ripping the pants off this boy.”Yurl had straddled Valyn, and instead of ending the struggle with a blow to the back of the neck, he was reaching down between his legs, trying to force his thighs apart as he thrashed and writhed.”Would you be defending “realism” and the need to “set the tone” if the male protagonist was casually sexually assaulted while everyone- trainers, friends and fellow students- looked on, jeering when Yurl managed to wrap a hand around Valyn’s limp dick or rub a few fingers along his crack?If you are uncomfortable with the image I’m painting you need to ask yourself why you were ok with Staveley doing it to Lin.AmieAnd that brings me to another thing- the murdered prostitute Amie. When Lin criticizes another character for soliciting sex from a thirteen year old girl she is shamed. I'm including the lot so no one can argue I've ignored context.The smile froze on Laith’s face. “She wasn’t my whore.”“Of course not. That’s the nice thing about borrowed gear—if it gets busted, it’s no skin off your nose. If Amie had been yours, maybe you would have taken better care of her.”Valyn raised a hand to stop the words, but Laith stepped in close before he could speak. The flier’s normal genial humor had burned off like the oil from the sputtering lamp.“I don’t know how I became the villain in this little tale,” he said, eyes bright, voice soft, “but don’t drag me into your guilt.”“My guilt?” Lin sputtered.“Oh, right,” the flier shot back. “I forgot. You only bought fruit from her. You never bought sex.” He held up his palms in mock surrender. “What’d you pay her? A few copper flames? Enough to put a decent meal on her table? Enough so she could stop whoring?”Lin refused to respond, her face closed like a book.“Before you come pointing your finger at me, why don’t you ask yourself what you did to make Amie’s life any better,” Laith demanded, eyes ablaze. Before Valyn could say anything to calm things down, the flier turned on his heel and stalked out.What is so strange about this is that the author seems to be making the suggestion that these two things aresomehow equivalent. Like fucking a 13 year old shows the same degree of concern as purchasing produce from said 13 year old. Even if Lin had done nothing for Amie,she still was dead to rights to call out another character for paying for sex with the 13 year old.What most infuriated me about this was that Lin is left feeling guilty and no one ever questions Laith's position. Somehow he won that round? How???? It is accepted as fair and correct by all the characters and thus I can only conclude that it is also meant to be accepted as such by the reader. What the fuck?POC and LGBTQ charactersBalendin looked like a savage straight out of the Hannan jungles. The feathers of seabirds hung among his long, dark braids, rings of ivory and iron pierced his ears, and blue ink snaked up his arms.“And you wonder why everyone wants to string you bastards up,” Gent grumbled. “No offense meant, Talal, but the whole thing is sick, filthy…”So just a regular POC by fantasy standards then. He is “treacherous” and “frightening”. He is a filthy savage. He is also a magical savage who probably should have been lynched. The POV characters also make much of his background. He is from a colonized backwater, possibly one of the ones,“pressing back against the ‘foreign oppressors,’ never mind that our oppression is what brings law courts and foreign trade, military protection and technological advancement”.I mean... for fucks sake... how many times do we have to keep talking about how shitty it is to constantly frame fantasy stories in terms of colonization and marginalization? The three POV characters are obviously from an extremely privelegded background so I’m not saying they should have better awareness of their own place in society but the novel never challenges these perspectives.These sort of comments are just thrown out into the narrative to swim around unchallenged.It makes it really hard to understand what Staveley’s intentions are because in his own words he seems to think it is really easy to break tropes, and that he is more interested in exploring traditional frameworks. Consider his understanding of what fantasy tropes are:“Within the fantasy genre, however, breakage is actually pretty easy. See that nice wizard over there? He has a pointy hat and a white beard. He mutters querulously to himself. He’s forgetful. He likes to read. He feeds nuts to an owl that perches on his shoulder. Now, let’s watch as he pries the eyeball from the skull of an innocent child while that child’s parents, whom our wizard has nailed (non-fatally) to a wall, watch in horror. Trope: broken. Honestly, I’m always a little surprised when people describe my books as dark or violent.”I mean what the hell? In that interview he seemed to be giving himself a pat on the back for his trope-breaking plot points. This suggests he isn’t aware of the tropes he is reinforcing- which also means that even if he manages to redeem some aspects of his story in the next two books- it will likely be as accidental and unconscious as his reinforcement of them was in this novel.I’m not even going to deal with Annick the magical unicorn lesbian. Suffice to say Staveley isn’t providing any nuance to that aspect of characterization either.I can handle books that deal with difficult issues or exist in grimdark universes.But if you are going to explore issues of gender, sexual assault, and colonization at least do it with conscious fucking awareness.I was so angry reading this book. The issues were so overt that it would have been impossible for me to enjoy this even if the story had been more engaging/ better paced.This is the end of the review. The other stuff deals with grimdark fantasy more generally.Some criticisms I suspect this review will garner after my experience with a similar critique I did ofAxe and the Throne:“This is grimdark, if you can’t handle the genre don’t read it.”Fuck you. I’m not being raped every other day in real life so why the fuck should every god-damn women in grimdark fantasy? If this is so fucking inevitable to the genre why doesBest Served Coldmanage to incorporate fully fleshed out female characters without constantly resorting to gendered violence. Why isJoe Abercrombieable to have a character who is a loving, single parent and a vicious torturer? Why is he able to have a female character that fucks and chucks a bloke and ends up better off for it?“Grimdark is just being honest. This is reality.”Grimdark is a subgenre that describes a particular the tone, style or setting of speculative fiction (especially fantasy) that is, depending on the definition used, markedly dystopian or amoral, or particularly violent or realistic.Here’s the thing- grimdark does not have to equal sexism. N.K. Jemison’s Broken Earth series (The Fifth Season) is dystopian, amoral, violent and realistic. However, shockingly, characters don’t suffer because they are women or because they are POC.It is possible to write a grim dark novel and include harrowing, realistic scenes without resorting automatically to gendered and racial violence.When you say, “well this is realistic” or “this is historically accurate” you are saying that realistic worldbuilding requires the inclusion of certain specific inequalities in order to count as realistic –that a story cannot be honest, or characters believably human, if women and POC aren’t oppressed or villainous. You are assuming that current expressions of bigotry, sexism and racism are universal truths.You are saying that there is no other possible reality that could be believable and then wonder why we get pissed off. Novels likeBladesreinforce specific inequalities as inevitable, thereby further perpetuating those perspectives.The thing isgrimdark doesn’t accurately reflect the historical period it is trying to mimic or even current reality. Where is the male rape? Where are the soldiers dying, not in an epic battle, but from infected scratches? Where are the people going insane from syphilis, which hero has a dick full of pus as a result of his philandering? Why aren’t the sexually active women pregnant? Why can so many characters read? I think you understand what I am getting at.The real problem is that grimdark as a genre has developed anaestheticthat readers have become familiar with. As a result itfeels realistic and right. Hardboiled pulp noir mysteries felt realistic in the 1950’s but we look back on them now and see them as a product of the author's time period, not as an accurate depiction of any sort of reality. The same is true for grimdark. It appeals to modern cynicism and we are so used to seeing gendered violence and oppressed POC that we think this is realistic. But it isn’t. And I strenuously reject any claims to the contrary.“The real world is not the same as a fictional world, authors shouldn’t have to be PC, fuck you and all the other SJW’s out to ruin everything.”Firstly, why are you so invested in seeing women raped and POC victimised in your fiction? I think this says more about you then me.Secondly, fiction has real- world consequences. Negative and positive.The Birth of a Nationinspired the formation of the second era of the Klu Klux Klan.12 Years a Slaveand other true accounts were essential in the political fight against slavery.Fiction is not created or read in a vacuum.It is no coincidence that the MRA movement evolved out of the gaming community. There is a reason women read and write “feminist” fiction.On one level or another we all acknowledge the very real and important ways stories permeate and shape our experience of the world.That said this is a subjective review. No one is preventing Staveley from publishing his work or you from reading it. I can say I don't like it and his fans can keep reading it. My dislike for something does not prevent you from enjoying it. I'm not lurking behind Staveley's writing desk with a butcher's knife telling him to write better fiction…or else…“Not every woman has to be a superhero who rescues kitties and knows karate.”Yep. I’m well- aware of that, thanks.Women do not have to fall into a handful of archetypes. They do not have to be the hero every time or to always succeed. A Mary Sue is just as infuriating as a trophy vagina.What is necessary is that female characters are as multi-faceted and flawed as male characters.They need to have their own motivations and goals. If they suffer it should be part of their character arc not their love interests.Lin was not a real person. Every decision she made aimed at pushing Valyn along his path to character growth. Consider that in one scene she ruthlessly kills a girl to teach Valyn the importance of recognizing the greater good. A few scenes later she teaches him the importance of compassion. Lin loses her temper, which leads him to play the hero and also teaches him the lesson that he should not let his emotions rule him. It also helps inspire sympathy in the reader for Valyn and increases our desire to see him succeed over the assholes.I don’t think it is too much to ask of authors that they ensure their female characters are fully-fleshed out.“Later in the series xyz character does xyz which proves it’s not sexist at all.”Firstly, the other books don’t matter because I’m reviewing this book.Secondly, from some of the synopsis’ I’ve read of the other books I’m almost certain I would have similar complaints.Thirdly, in terms of literary merit, I found the book boring and have no interest in reading the rest of the series.