One look at the cover of the book and the name guys.I was drawn to it. An intense feeling in my chest when I read the summary. I was right! I usually don´t let myself be driven by a cover or a summary until I grab the book. Ladies and gentlemen, I was very correct when I chose it.I think when I started reading this book I went slowly on purpose to eat each word with my eyes. Taste every chapter and enjoy every frase. Simply:"YES".This book goes through friendship, love, family and gives great importance to the feelings of the characters.Now for the detailed info:1) Loved every charachter in this book.2) There is little detail to how the surroundings and the world functions. I felt the customs were clear but not the world Jasmine was in.3) Good story, good plot. Not the greatest.4)The way this book is written from every point of view traps you in a way your head goes dizzy. Great writting skills. It´s not just about writting pretty or a lot of details. It takes skill to make the reader want to read slow because he/she is reluctant to finish the book. Beautiful! I´m a fast reader and I eat books, especially if I like them. This time, I had to force myself to go slow. Not because of the pace, but because I was enamoured and charmed by its storyline.5) Keilor is just...OMG! The name makes my heart race. Even though he is possessive and your usual strong macho man. He has a witty serious kind of personality. He is strong and demanding, but his thoughts and actions make you understand him and even venerate him. Quoting one of the best parts in this book:"A frisson of alarm shook her at his words. “What do you mean, ‘and the rest of my suitors’?” she demanded, uncaring that they were close enough for Keilor to hear. Surely he didn’t mean—Giving her a sexy smile, Keilor answered for her. “Jayems gave me his permission to win you, of course.” His smile turned down right scintillating. “Wear something silver tomorrow night, Dragonfly.”She blushed. A little bit scared, and more than a little bit excited, she ground out, “You can’t play!” What if he actually won? It was one thing to tease him into noticing her, another for him to be elevated to suitor. That was serious business. She wasn’t sure he was ready to belong to one woman. She hadn’t had long enough to convince him.Keilor raised a brow and studied her with lazy possession. “Why not? I did give you a gift, didn’t I?”Jasmine huffed even as her temperature shot up ten degrees. “You don’t count!”With a husky laugh, he flicked a butterfly caress across her lips with his thumb. “I’m the only one who does.” He flashed perfect teeth at Jayems, full of good humor. “Your suitors can still have their reward. All they have to do is go through me.” Just Perfect!6) Jasmine is a good heroine and I loved Wiley. You fall in love with their friendship.7) The action parts and real problems felt rushed. So it gave an odd feeling that they didn´t matter and everything would be allright in the end. That... I didn´t like. It´s like the book was slashing plots and schemes from every corner but none of them moved me. I overlooked this issue because I was entertained anyways.8) The end also felt rushed and more like a child story ending. Like Disney movie endings to be more precise.9) Loved the customs of the Haunt, the weapons where cool and their way of thinking.10) The "evil doers" where very weak characters and I couldn´t help but feel that they didn´t even have to exist to love the book. They really didn't matter. Yesanda and the rest had no importance in any way to me.11)There is no explanation towards the non-existent reaction of the commoners when humans like Jasmine walked through the market. How can that be? No public retribution.11) Overlooking these flaws I not only enjoyed this novel,I adored every minute of it.So read this as soon as you can! Enjoy the ride! Fill your eyes with the wonderful romance between Jasmin and Keilor. Thats the most important part in this book really. The thrill, the passion, the restraint, the intrigue if it is true love or just hormones. The sweet and sour will make you go crazy! Trust me. If you appreciate a good romance novel, you must read this book.4 Stars is my final resolution. Autumn Dawn, please, please keep on writting. You know how to type the right words with a great pace.