SpoilersI'm so glad the series is finally over, the last few books have been dire and this one wasn't much better. I was hoping that some of the magic of earlier books would have been recaptured in this one… Sadly, that wasn't the case. There were very few things that I actually found entertaining, the only aspect I truly appreciated and enjoyed were certain, well written secondary characters, everything else was rubbish.Random, repetitive, ranty thoughts:-Summary: Rachel is forced to find a way to help undead vampires get their souls back. Naturally, chaos ensues.Also, lots of Rachel mooning over Trent and them two being nauseatingly sappy and melodramatic.-I was disappointed with the writing, it didn't flow very well, it was awkward and all over the place especially the action scenes. I'm sure the writing in earlier books was a lot better.-The plot didn't do much for me, on the one hand I was glad that all the focus wasn't on Trent and his elf politics and that instead the vampires took centre stage. That being said the vampire plot was nowhere near as good as it could have been and unfortunately, there was still too much elf nonsense for my liking. What I really wanted was more demon related plot, they were the most entertaining and interesting characters yet they got pushed out by the much duller vampires and elves.-Most of the vampires came across as cliched, their threats and behaviour was tiresome to read about. The only vampire who I found tolerable was Ivy, the rest were insufferable. At least they were better than the bloody elves.-I wasn't impressed with how quickly Rachel solved the vampire soul problem. It was all so convenient, she had years to figure out how to save Ivy's soul and she got absolutely nowhere in those years, but in this book she managed to figure it all out in a matter of hours.It was so disappointing, I expected there to be a huge build up, struggle and pay off in her saving vampire souls… Instead Rachel (and later Al) suddenly had an epiphany and it took all of a few pages for her to question and wonder and get answers. An arc like that deserved a more thoughtful finish, instead there were a couple of deus ex machinas epiphany's and in between those there were cheesy vampire threats and chaos.-I used to love Rachel, she was fun, had lots of crazy adventures and had so many things going on. In the last few books she's been anything but fun, ever since she got with Trent the magic in the series/her character has disappeared. In this one Rachel was a weepy damsel in distress who couldn't do anything without Trent, I lost count of the amount of times Trent had to carry Rachel in his big strong manly arms. Ugh. All Rachel seemed to do was cry, and fangirl and whine about Trent. It was sickening. I could have maybe excused Rachel's silly worshipping of Trent if he had actually been worthy of it but he was scum.I was so sick of Rachel thinking she was the luckiest girl in the world to have Trent and that someone like her didn't deserve him, he wasn't some brilliant saint, he was a murdering-crazy-selfish-lying fucker who didn't deserve happiness. Why on earth was the author trying to make him out to be something oh so brilliant and desirable?Then there was Rachel blaming herself for Trent losing everything. Which was ridiculous. The reason he (temporarily) lost some of his money and power was because of his own dirty dealings and selfishness. It was his fault and no-one else's but as usual Rachel had to be a martyr about it and blame herself. Who was this stupid, draining, nonsensical heroine?-The scene where Ivy was injured and about to die made me want to pull my hair out, instead of rushing to get her medical treatment Rachel and the gang wasted time hugging, whining and arguing. Ivy was losing blood and on the verge of dropping dead yet there was no urgency or basic common sense to how Rachel and the gang handled the situation. Why did Bis even bother to bring Nina and co to the Ever After? They weren't needed there. It was a waste of time, his first priority should have been getting Ivy out of the Ever After and into the hospital. That whole scene was stupid.-When Rachel had a twelve hour deadline to save Ivy's life, the silly cow spent most of her time drinking coffee, eating cookies and flirting. I don't know why she was so exasperated with the deadline when she clearly had more than enough time if all she did was flit around and do nothing.-What was with Rachel looking down at Nina and her connection to Felix? The only reason Nina was like that was because she was addicted and couldn't help herself. Rachel acted like she was the devil for lying about it and not breaking free of him. I really didn't get the whole sudden demonization of Nina, it came out of nowhere. Where was Rachel's compassion and understanding? She should have been trying to support/help Nina and Ivy, instead she was just stirring things.It was also rich of Rachel to condemn Nina over a weakness and addiction when she was cool with all the horrible things Trent had done. She had such double standards.-The Ivy/Nina drama wasn't very engrossing, it felt added on just to make Rachel look good and Nina bad.-Why was Cormel so daft about getting back his soul? He was meant to be powerful and intelligent but he spent most of the book acting like a prat, he kept pushing Rachel and refused to listen to her advice. For someone so old and cunning I expected him to be patient and wise instead he threw a tantrum and ignored any potential consequences and made things worse for himself. It made his character flat and cartoonish.-The amount of times Cormel threatened Rachel and kidnapped/hurt Ivy was ridiculous. The story was so repetitive and nonsensical.There was also a lot of inconsistency — one minute Rachel was at the mercy of Cormel then the next she was putting him in his place. Was he a bloody threat or not?!-When Rachel and Al were talking about the vampires and their souls why the hell did Rachel not question Al when he mentioned the reason the demons separated souls from vampires? She just ignored what he said instead of questioning the fuck out of him!! Al had information that could have possibly helped her but the giddy twit was too busy making cow eyes at Trent to bother with anything else.-Jenks was great, I loved how he was always there for Rachel and Ivy. I really wanted there to be more of the core trio (Ivy, Jenks, Rachel) together, they didn't really have many scenes together and when they did, there were other people there interfering with their dynamic. I missed them just hanging out and bonding, their friendship and work relationship was the best aspect of the series but it was more or less forgotten about for other crappy relationships.-I had to roll my eyes at Rachel moving in with Trent when her home was completely destroyed. I'm pretty sure it's now become a UF law that when the heroine has her home destroyed she has to move in with the hero and stay there forever. Apparently, heroines can't move in when they are ready, they have to be pushed into it by outside forces.-I wish Rachel had grown a backbone and laid down some laws with the I.S/FIB/vampires in exchange for her help with the demons/vamp souls. All she did was have a bit of whine instead of actually making demands to make sure they'd never bother her or her friends again.-I don't know why Rachel was so shocked at being in love with Trent, she already knew that before and if she didn't then she was even more thicker than I thought.-I was sick of Rachel moaning about holding Trent back and him being oh so important and wonderful. Her whole mantra through the entire book was either 'Trent's too important' or 'Oh noes, he's in danger' — she acted more like an adoring mother the way she thought he could do no wrong and was constantly worried for his safety, it was cringey.She was such a drama queen when she kept despairing about not being able to have a long lasting relationship with Trent because he was too amazing and important for the likes of her. Rachel knew perfectly well she was going to be with Trent forever but the silly cow just liked angsting about it. Also, the only person holding Trent back was Trent, if he wanted something different then he could have had it. Rachel was too daft to realise that shock!horror! people had the power to make their own life decisions.-I felt like punching someone whenever Rachel whined about Trent not being safe or him not being able to fulfil his elf leader duties just because he was dating her. She banged on about it every few paragraphs, why did she keep mentioning it if she wasn't going to do something about it?! Why didn't she tell Trent to piss off if she was so worried about him being safe or him giving up his future?! What was the point of monologuing about it over and over? Why didn't she talk to Trent about her worries instead of going over them again and again? I really didn't understand why the author made Rachel repeat the same Trent-related thoughts every few paragraphs. Was it meant to make their relationship even more forbidden and sexy or something? Was it meant to show Trent in a good light with him choosing Rachel? Well, it didn't work on me.It was frustrating to read Rachel's never-ending Trent propaganda, it was like the author was desperate to show that Trent really loved Rachel and would sacrifice for her. But I never believed it, especially when it was obvious Trent wouldn't lose anything — he'd have his money, his power, his kids, Ellasbeth, respect from all the elves, not to mention his pet demon in Rachel… And the ending confirmed that. Whereas Rachel was the only one who actually sacrificed and lost things — she lost her beloved home, her business with Ivy/Jenks and was unable to have her own kids for decades. Trent didn't sacrifice anything so any attempts at making him seem like he was sacrificing for Rachel were empty. If the author wanted to show something different then Trent should have actually lost something by being with Rachel, which he never did, not only that he knew he could have it all, so all his gestures were meaningless.-I didn't appreciate all the heavy handed attempts at trying to make Trent out to be some kind of hero. Rachel kept banging on about his sacrifices and destiny… He never made any sacrifices (he got everything he ever wanted) and his destiny to lead the elves was bullshit since any other elf of average intelligence and some morals could take over for him. Surely, he wasn't the only one suited for the role.-I didn't like that Trent's feelings for Rachel were based purely on her being a goody two shoes and thus making him a better person — it confirmed that if she ever did anything remotely questionable or bad he'd no longer want her or have feelings for her.-I expected so much more from Rachel. I wasn't satisfied that her 'happily ever after' was spending decades being Trent's bit on the side and mother to his brats, it was depressing. She was meant to be an immortal demon who had lots to learn about magic and demons, she was destined for adventure and mishaps instead she basically turned into a dowdy old housewife, step-mum and presumably a rich bitch.-I still didn't get the whole mystics/goddess nonsense. The fact that there were only introduced in the previous book yet played a significant role in the last book of thirteen felt very contrived. Whenever the mystics/goddess were mentioned I felt like I was reading a different series, they never fit into the rest of the Hollows world. Maybe if they'd been introduced earlier on they wouldn't have felt so out of place.-Landon, the goddess, and Cormel being the bad guys/antagonists didn't work for me. Landon and the goddess were far too new characters for them to feel like true threats to Rachel and the gang, they were more an annoyance than characters that provided edge-of-the-seat tense situations/showdowns. Cormel could have been a great bad guy but he turned into a caricature. The three of them were such lame antagonists for the final book of such a long series.-Loved Newt, Dali and Al - wish they'd played a bigger part in the story.-Rachel officially became the Worst Heroine Ever when she genuinely felt she deserved the slap Al gave her, on top of that she felt guilty about 'making him' slap her. The twit really loved blaming everything on herself, even when someone abused her for no fucking reason.-I didn't like how both Rachel and Trent laughed off him putting her in a cage for days and abusing her for years. Not only that Rachel pretty much blamed herself for Trent abusing her. Ugh, Rachel obviously loved being used and abused. No wonder she fell for Trent.-That last chapter where Trent said he'd been doing what Rachel wanted for 25 years and now it was his turn to do what he wanted was a joke, right? Right? For those 25 years Rachel was suppressing her happiness and needs just so Trent could still be the elven leader, it was ALL for him and he knew that, so for him to basically turn that around and make out he was the one that'd been doing all the giving in their relationship was rather sick and twisted.Trent LOVED that he still had Rachel and his elf position, he was glad she didn't want to marry him because that way he'd have everything. He did NOTHING for her in those 25 years, Rachel was the one who sacrificed, not him. The only reason he did push to get married after 25 years was because he could finally do it without losing his power. If he really wanted to marry Rachel then he would have given up his elf position and reassured Rachel that marrying her was more important than any job. But he didn't, because he was cool with leaving Rachel hanging. If he had really loved her, he wouldn't have spent so much time playing leader when he could have been concentrating on finding the demon/elf baby-making cure earlier. The only reason he even bothered with that was probably for Ray and her demon husband, not for Rachel.Ugh, he was such a slimy manipulative prick — he had his kids and power and Rachel as his doormat whilst Rachel just got the leftovers of his life. Yet Trent managed to act like he was the one who'd been sacrificing and suffering in silence when it was the other way around. He knew full well that the only reason she wasn't marrying him was so he could have all his dreams fulfilled. The manipulative fuck couldn't acknowledge that though, he had act like he was the one giving everything to their relationship when really he was the one holding everything back by his ambitions and wants and Rachel was the one compromising and giving. Ugh.-Rachel and Trent finally being able to have a baby was such a cop out. It was already established that demons and elves couldn't reproduce so for them to suddenly be able to after Trent/Al did some vague research was stupid and cheesy. Why do authors make set rules for their worlds only to break them just for plot convenience and silly HEA's?! It's such crappy writing.-Rachel's non-stop guilt and self blame was shocking to read, she sounded like an abused housewife. Even at the very end she was blaming herself that Trent couldn't have more kids. Did the silly cow not realise it wasn't her fault? They were both aware when they got together that they wouldn't be able to because of what supernatural species they were. So how did that translate as her stopping him from having any other kids? It wasn't like she forced him to be with her! If she thought it was her fault he couldn't have more kids then by that logic he was also to blame for stopping her from having kids. But oh no, Rachel can't see things from a logical perspective, she can only see things from an everything-is-my-fault-I'm-always-at-fault-and-I'm-such-a-loser perspective. She really was on another bloody planet, she had zero logic or common sense.-Trent spent most of his time taking naps. The big baby.-Al became an actor and won 5 oscars? Really? Ugh. Also, I doubt a five time oscar winner would star in a cheesy-cheap sounding dinosaur movie.-I wasn't happy that there was no mention in the last chapter of Rachel being immortal and never ageing. I wanted to know what her thoughts were/what she would do once Trent, Jenks, her family all dropped dead.-I didn't need to know every piece of clothing Trent wore or what his hair looked like or what his every movement was. It added absolutely nothing to the story or characters — well that's not quite true, it did make Rachel seem like even more of a shallow-pathetic-fangirl.I also didn't need to know what every single person smelled like.All in all, what a rubbish end to a once great series. I'd recommend earlier books because they were everything a UF book should be, it's a shame the last 3 to 4 books turned into the Trent and Rachel abusive-embarrassing-eye-roll-inducing-sickening love show. I definitely won't be reading any future series by the author, I don't trust her not to change an awesome series into a crappy, fucked up, contrived romance.