It does stand to mention that although this book continues with characters from earlier works,The Winter SeaandThe Shadowy HorsesThe Firebird can easily be read as a stand alone. You don't necessarily need to read them in any order.UPDATE 02 May 2013Yes, a real review, HUZZAH! I couldnt put this down. Love, love, love. Fantastic. Beautiful. Everything I anticipated.I first started reading Susanna Kearsley after I found Gabaldon's Outlander series. GR recommended similar books and Kearsley was a new name to me, so GR gets two gold stars AND an A+ for that recommendation.And you Canadian authors? Get on with your bad self. I think they come out of the womb with a cap and gown and best seller already written in their hand.This is historical fiction at it's best. Engaging. Betrayal. Attraction. Mystery. Love. Twisty. A tissue or five. Kearsley grabs your attention and shows, not tells, her story. This is why she remains one of my favorite authors.One of my first pet peeves in historical fiction is being told a biblical genealogical portion, ...a mountain of facts and history. For example: From period dress of colorful, purple-red, tightly-woven, fine-fitted for fall, brushed gabardine and heralding its merits of sturdiness (or lack of) once washed vigorously and hung to dry by the maid who is 22, blond, busty and also very much 9 months pregnant by some unfaithful, lazy sot with an even lazier eye and unfortunate overbite..... to regaling lengthy descriptions of the majestic, sweeping, gentle rolling of wind off the whispering reeds of the pond, across the hills to the tickling effects on each and every insects' ear, energetic hatching offspring, and entomological abode nestled in the blades and twisted roots of rich, green, dewy grass.Its like watching paint dry.Susanna Kearsley expertly avoids this trap. She keeps you engaged and balances her stories, without the dreaded info dump. The reader is handed piece meal bits of history that draw the reader along: English history, Russian history, art, and The Jacobite Rising. I COULD NOT put it down (note appropriate use of SHOUTY CAPS). Who needs sleep and study time when you are testing for legal aspects of medicine? Not me, no sirreee.A few fans claim this book does not have as much rich history to the story as her other works, but I disagree. Out of the two storylines, present and past, the focus is that witnessing or living the history itself was a catalyst for the characters. You need interesting, real, engaging characters to do this, you need character development and interaction.The Firebird carries on dual story lines: the historical storyline involves a young woman named Anna, separated from her family due to their political entanglements.In The Winter Sea, readers objected to the issue of a child sent away by his or her parents, even as a safety measure. Kearsley never flat out stated WHY an author would write this but if readers look deeper, you will have your answer: If a child's age can determine a time frame for a relationship between her mother and father, and esp. establishing a time frame contrary to their new identities and date of nuptials, wouldn't you protect the entire family by sending the child away? At least until cloak and dagger, political unrest is no longer life-threatening. In plain words, yes...I'd send my child away for a time - it would completely rip my heart out, but I'd make the same choice.Life is not miserable for Anna, in fact she is very blessed. She is surrounded over the years by caring family (adopted or otherwise), friendships, and yes, a young man or two. Along the way, Anna also experiences in as many forms trust, heartache, faith, and hope that comes with love.The present day storyline is a continuation of Rob "Robbie" from Kearsley's The Shadowy Horses and our main character, Nicola.Rob is grown now, handsome, charming, and altruistic in his talents. He has been open about his mind reading abilities. This to the betterment of his job as a policeman, a rescue volunteer, and also to those living in his quiet village. When approached by Nicola, a woman from his past with similar abilities, he jumps right in to help her solve her mystery. A mystery involving provenance of a historical artifact linking to the past, to Anna(thus the crossing of story lines).It was clear that Rob was also driven by his and Nicola's mutual attraction, and growing relationship. Although, growing in which direction? As Nicola complains, why does he have to be such a gentleman?!This tension ramps up with each turn and twist of the story although, I do wish there was more love story and romance elements throughout the story and not put off until the end of the book. Anyway, back to Rob...he encourages Nicola in her budding abilities, pushing her but he also knows when to patiently hold back and allow Nicola make up her own mind, at her own pace. And an intelligent, gorgeous, patient but broody Scot is definitely swoony in my book. Add a Scots brogue and Nicola is lost...or is she? You'll have to read it to find out.I highly recommend this for readers who enjoy historical fiction, mystery, romance, and a bit of paranormal. I'd also recommend her other works, if you are so inclined.*******Huzzah! Saw the cover art revealed on Susanna Kearsley's FB page. So very, very lovely.Now that we have a story synopsis, I'm already in love with this book. She's combining characters from Shadowy Horses and Winter Sea.IM SO EXCITED....SO EXCITED I'M EVEN USING MY AWESOME SHOUTY CAPS!!SHOUTY CAPS, I SAY!