“Be careful of love. It'll twist your brain around and leave you thinking up is down and right is wrong.”Well, isn’t that the truth?The Battle of Labyrinthis, so far, the most disappointed installment for this series, and very much less exciting than the previous books.As much as I hate to say it, the ship of Percabeth is drowning in this installment instead of sailing.One reason I can’t get behind the Percabeth ship here is because of Annabeth’s continuous but hidden feelings for Luke. Say what you want to say, but she doesn’t shut up about him. You expect me to believe Percabeth is a thing when she’s jealous over Rachel and Percy’s friendshipyetshe clearly isn’t over Luke? I don’t think so. It doesn’t even matter if they aren’t romantic feelings anymore. Even Thalia was able to tell Luke was long gone and gave up on him rather quickly. I liked her attitude on that, because she knew she wasn’t responsible for “saving” someone who didn’t even want it. If Luke was written differently, in a way where we, as the readers, could see he wants help, or has hope to leave the Titan’s and Kronos, I would accept Annabeth’s concern over him. However, even if I don’t hate Luke (shoutout to Rick for that), I cannot bring myself to sympathize with her either. While the previous book showed the future potential for these two, this one officially killed it.While I love Annabeth in the first three books, she frustrated me a lot here. She came across more rude, unwilling to think about how others feel. I despised her attitude towards Rachel, even if I can understand where she was coming from. Some may argue it’s because she was jealous of Rachel and Percy, and while this makes sense, I can’t move on from it due to the reality of how Percy feels.As readers, it’s obvious to see Annabeth has feelings for Percy, but as an outsider’s perspective, if we take Percy into consideration and how he feels, he clearly hasn’t noticed. Honestly, I believe even Percy doesn’t know who he likes and how he feels. He’s shownsomethingfor others like Calypso, and he’s not exactly distancing himself from Rachel, but he doesn’t make himself stand out. He’s a high school freshman now, but as Rachel said, he’s a dude, and he’s blind. Still, in my opinion, he doesn’t give any signals about how he feels, only small things we can interpret. Therefore, Annabeth’s jealousy towards Rachel felt unprovoked, unnecessary and for no good measure. I wanna say it’s childish, but since they are kids, I guess it makes sense. Regardless, I would appreciate this future couple more had Annabeth not been so mixed with her feelings, with her obvious attraction to Percy becoming more obvious but her care and defense for Luke still overcoming it. I’m not reading this series for this couple, especially as it’s still a middle grade novel (though I’d argue it’s more YA now with the kids being in high school), so the romance is not the biggest point here. Still, when everyone who loves this series mentions the two of them together, I would have expected to be feeling the same. Sadly, I couldn’t bring myself to root for them, for their future stories and moments, when Annabeth’s attitude feels rash, completely thoughtless.“What is it with you?” I snapped. “Why do you keep defending him?”Dear Percy, I wanna know that too.Plus, Annabeth’s personality here felt so different than the previous books. Whereas before I thought she was incredibly strong, adventurous, and courageous, here she felt not only rude, but also obnoxious. For as strong as she was before, now her diligence was just concealed. She just feels whiny now, complaining about Luke, and defending Luke all the time. They share a past and history together, so it’s easy to understand how and why Annabeth feels protective over Luke. Regardless, there’s no character development or any type of hint showing character development. There’s no implication that Annabeth is growing from her previous feelings, whether romantic, platonic, or admirable. This will all come down to how one interprets Annabeth’s feelings. Some may see it as her still seeing Luke as her hero, while others, like me, will still see it as something more. Regardless, even if I saw Annabeth as seeing Luke as someone she still looks up to, I still don’t think there has been any character development on her end. I would believe it more had she shown any type of remorse for how shehasbeen feeling. In my opinion, it felt like her entire arc revolves around stating Luke is being manipulated, Luke this, Luke that.So much for being the wise girl, huh? After four books, this is simply disappointing.Also, I feel as if this was the book with the least fitting title. I mean, we still learn about the Labyrinth, but I guess what I’m trying to say is that I expected MORE of thebattleof Labyrinth. I’ve been really excited to see how Percy becomes stronger throughout the books. We don’t really see him training and improving, so it’s safe to say it happens outside the book, which means we don’t read about it all the time. Because of this happening off-page, I have been looking forward to seeing Percy fight more, grow stronger, and show us his potential more. I do think the author’s timeline is working out perfectly well. I don’t think it’s progressing too slow or too fast, and the development of everything happening feels right. Yet, I can’t help but be disappointed with the lack of…powers? Magic? We see more of Percy’s potential here, which is super exciting to finally see, and something we can say we have been waiting for. On the other hand, it has been three years since we met Percy and he joined the camp, yet not much new has happened in regards to who he is, his potential, and what he can do. This had the most fighting and action of the series thus far. While it was nice, it wasn’t the most exciting. I would have expected more resolution to be done. At this point, I can only say there are scenes that feel repetitive concerning who he is as a half-blood.I also thought the entire execution of Pan was underwhelming, as if the entire journey of finding him was not as important. I was happy for Grover, and then I was disappointed. I think it’s fair to say I was expecting a better execution, more performance to show its relevance. This also had some similarity to book 2,The Sea of Monsters, where, once again, the characters felt off in who they are. I can confidently sayThe Sea of Monstersstill provided that laughter and humor this series was looking promising to have. This fourth installment was simply so dull compared to its predecessors. Even with all the fights, action, twists and turns, disappointment makes me too bitter.With that being said, I still think there are praise worthy moments in this book. I’ve loved seeing the new gods we meet through the story, both good and bad, and how they have relevance to Percy and his journey. I’ve loved seeing how Percy becomes more acquainted with those closest to him as well. Grover, though, has shown fantastic character development. I’m looking forward to seeing how his powers evolve. I especially loved that we got more of Tyson here and how he became an important part of Percy’s gang. Seeing him tag along made the journey all the better. Special shoutout to Mrs. O’Leary. I always have a soft spot for animal characters in books, and Mrs. O’Leary being a huge hellhound makes no difference. I’m glad Quintus left her with Percy instead of getting rid of her. It warms my heart knowing she is in good hands. Dionysus, God of Wine, has greatly grown on me. He’s unintentionally hilarious. I wish he had more page-time because his banter created some of that humor and joy missing. I also loved Calypso, even though I feel so bad for her. And of course, Nico, my precious, misunderstood emo baby. I am so excited to learn more about him throughout the series.As mentioned before, I do think the author has written the stories progression really well, timeline wise. The way everything is happening, from the Titan’s army forming and attacking, to how Kronos is being reformed, to how Percy and everyone else are gathering allies and continue learning more about the prophecy; it all comes into a well-done conclusion. Once again, I am a fan of this author’s writing. The way he writes in vivid detail, explaining the monsters and gods is very imaginary. It’s easy to see the descriptions come to life. And even though I was disappointed with Percy’s character arc, I do like seeing more action being done here. I don’t doubt the last and final book,The Last Olympian, will end in a satisfying enough conclusion.