“Live,” I said. “Why else do you think I put you here?”Why else? Why else indeed? I have a because... Because, at this point in time, 2:43pm GMT+3 in the year of our lord Beyonce Giselle Knowles C◼️◼️◼️◼️◼️ 2022, I believe I was officially put on this earth to shout about HOW AMAZING THIS BOOK IS.If I was a booktuber I'd be making indecipherable noises as a gush review. If I was a competent bookstagrammer, I'd create an edit that is so epic, it would revolutionize Instagram as we know it. But alas, I am neither. I am just a girl, standing in front of her work computer, begging all the faceless strangers scrolling down their screens who will come across this review, to PLEASE READ THIS BOOK.Can you tell how much I loved it?! CAN YOU? My god, I think I'm vibrating.The story starts with our main protagonist Yeine dau she Kinneth tai wer Somem kanna Darre, daughter of Kinneth Arameri, ennu of the Darre people, leader of tribe Somem but before you can parse the significance of Yeine's full name, she informs us that tribes have become insignificant since the Gods' War.But I'm getting ahead of myself. The story doesn'treallystart there. In this universe, the Big Bang's equivalent is the Maelstrom where the deities Itempas and Nahadoth were created from nothingness. However, even before that, according tothis New Yorker article,it all started witha dream vision of two gods. One had dark-as-night hair that contained a starry cosmos of infinite depth; the other, in a child’s body, manipulated planets like toys. From these images, Jemisin spun out a four-hundred-page story about an empire that enslaves its deities.Yeine is the mixed race daughter of the Darre chief and the former princess of the Arameri, the ruling family of the Amn people. Her mother, Kinneth, dared to defy their caste system and marry a man who is "beneath" her.My father dared ask my mother to dance; she deigned to consent. I have often wondered what he said and did that night to make her fall in love with him so powerfully, for she eventually abdicated her position to be with him. It is the stuff of great tales, yes? Very romantic. In the tales, such a couple lives happily ever after. The tales do not say what happens when the most powerful family in the world is offended in the process.Hook me, baby.Yeine has been summoned by her grandfather, Dekarta, ruler of all mankind. He ignored for her nineteen years but suddenly he wanted her in Sky, the city where the Arameri live, where they have enslaved their gods and the children of these gods.This book isn't Jemisin's best work. It's even self-aware,Such a convoluted patchwork to piece together.There is a certain amateurishness that's hard to ignore, especially after seeing the excellence of her prose inThe City We Became. The world building is sound. The characters solid but there was a certain elusive quality in the delivery. Perhaps this was because the story was in first person with the language a bit simpler than the indulgent decadence of her latest book. I ended up reading some scenes too quickly and felt I had missed something and even upon reread it would elude me such that when a reveal came about I felt that if the prose had been a bit denser, I'd have connected the dots sooner.The story has three main running cogs. The war of the gods, the mystery behind the death in Yeine's family and why she has been summoned by her grandfather. And while everything was resolved satisfactorily, I still felt I needed more. At no point does the quality of this book suffer but I am a sugar addict and I wanna dance in cake damnit. I needed about three hundred more pages and at least two more perspectives. I needed to linger. However that doesn't matter when you have a lord of darkness who looks like this.Nahadoth by sorskc (DeviantArt)He is everything my emo self would ever imagine in a god. And he is banging....here was no human flesh to filter his cool majesty. His eyes glowed blue-black with a million mysteries, terrifying and exquisite. When he smiled, all the world shivered...ShiverMEtimbers baby.Another favourite is the trickster god, Sieh. Imagine the adorableness of Avatar Aang (seriously Sieh moves with globes too) and the deviousness of Loki. Not MCU Loki. Actual Loki. I adored him with everything that I am.The book does interrogate existence. When Yeine is asked what she wants out of life, she—understandably—whines at her lot in life which is er a lot, Naha scolds her“You are what your creators and experiences have made you, like every other being in this universe. Accept that and be done; I tire of your whining.”There is also commentary on class, agency, gender roles, colonization, freedom, free will. What's radical about this book is how it's thegodswho are oppressed. The most powerful beings whocausedCREATION are the ones subjugated. To undo or reform this level of oppression, a lot has to explode. Bang goes that revolution.Aside from such grasping and provocative material, this book gave me something I didn't even realise I was missing. Having been in the dumps for what feels like forever, I think I'd forgotten what joy felt like. With everything that is happening in the world, with how miasmic my personal life is, I didn't realise how I'd settled into unhappiness. I'd forgotten to find joy. I still laughed. I still listened to music. I still felt at peace when I sat on my balcony listening for silence between the rain drops to a Norah Jones soundtrack. But I was not joyful. No.When I started this book, I was on a commute to the city centre to collect a package. My city is one which fills you with rage unfailingly. No matter what happens, you will be angry every time you enter, stay and leave Nairobi. This ugly concrete behemoth seeps bitterness into all. As I waited for my bus to fill up so I could escape the godforsaken beast's belly, I decided to open up Libby on a whim. I don't know what prompted me but I decided to search Jemisin and lo and behold, Hundred Thousand Kingdoms was ready for me to borrow. Ignoring the protests of the rest of my tbr, I acquired the book and got to reading. By the time I was alighting, I was running to the house so I could settle down and continue reading. Whenever life happened, I would wish for it to hasten so I could get back to my book.It had plenty of moments happened that filled me with so much giddiness. My favourite was when Yeine had an altercation with her cousin, Scimina, who is an heir to Dekarta's throne.“It will do for now.”“For now?” Scimina stared at me, incredulous, then began to laugh.“Oh, Cousin. Sometimes I wish your mother were still alive. She at least could have given me a real challenge.”I had lost my knife, but I was still Darre. I whipped around and hit her so hard that one of her heeled shoes came off as she sprawled across the floor.“Probably,” I said, as she blinked away shock and what I hoped was a concussion. “But my mother was civilized.”I was on my feet after that scene. This book is pure excitement. I haven't had the rush to read the next scene, playing the just one chapter game at bedtime, this pure unadulterated joy—something childlike and inchoate of the pollution of reality—in a long time. And for that, this book gets the most resounding five stars.