5 Red Reaper StarsFirst read 3/10/2014Reread 12/6/2015Rereread 12/1/2019reread 4/29/21Reread 5/3/22“You must be taking a piss on me.” “Am I expected to know what that means?” Madigan asked coolly. Bones leaned forward, all traces of laughter gone. “Allow me to be clearer: If you think you’re forcing my wife to work for you, you don’t know who you’re fucking with.”-Bones and Madigan“Ian,” I managed. A chuckle vibrated against my lips. “Don’t fancy him joining us, sorry.” I shoved against his chest, but it didn’t move him. “He’ll hear us,” I got out before Bones’s mouth stole away my voice. Then his hand stole my reason when it slid between my legs, stroking flesh that swelled and slicked beneath his touch. Another chuckle, this one distinctly wicked. “Yes, so don’t be stingy with the compliments.”-Cat and Bones*Spoilers*OMG NOOOOOOO it can't end. I love them too much. What will I do with my life now? I think I am hyperventilating......... God I can't believe this is the last book in the Night Huntress Series. But wow what a Fan-fucking-tastic end to an epic series!!!!! This series gave me such joy. It gave me tons of entertainment, made me laugh, smile, cry, flip the fuck out and fall madly in love with a ton of amazing characters that will live in my heart forever.“We were never properly introduced,” I said in a vicious purr. “I’m the Red Reaper, and you’re dead.”-Cat“Why do you bother, Crispin? You married a fighter, so stop trying to convince her that the sidelines suit her better.” “The day you love anyone but yourself is the day I’ll take your marital advice, Ian,” Bones bit back in an icy tone. “Then today is that day,” Ian replied sharply, “for I love you, you wretched, pig-headed guttersnipe. I also love that arrogant, overprivileged dandy smirking at us”—a wave indicted Spade, whose aforementioned smirk vanished—“as well as the emotionally fractured, malfunctioning psychic who sired me. And you, Crispin, love a bloodthirsty hellion who’s probably killed more people in her thirty years than I have in over two centuries of living, so again I say, don’t bother trying to convince her that she isn’t who she is.”-Ian and BonesOf course this series goes out with a bang. Up From The Grave, was a kick-ass, emotional story. In the final installment of the Night Huntress Series, Bones and Cat are trying to find out what happened to their friends and ex team members, Tate, Juan, Dave, and Cooper, who have disappeared. They know the new boss that heads up Cat's old dept with homeland security, Madigan, is behind it. When Bones and Cat go to save their friends, they find out secrets that will tear their hearts out and may start a war between vampires and ghouls. Can Cat and Bones save their family, and friends? Can they stop the war?“My true skill is killing. I’ve excelled at it since I was sixteen, when I took on my first vampire without knowing anything about them.” Then I went over to Bones, framing his face in my hands. “It was you who taught me to judge people by their actions instead of their species. You saved me from a life of misery, regret, and well-earned recriminations. Now it’s time to let me do my thing, Bones”—I smiled wryly—“and trust that you taught me to be the best damned killer I could be.”-Cat“But you forgot who I am—a ruthless bastard who will do anything to keep you safe. So yes, I pretended one of the soldiers fired silver bullets in order that you, and everyone else, would believe I’d died. It was the only way to protect you when Madigan brought you back to the compound, and I had no doubt he’d capture you if you went to meet him. He’s waited too long not to come at you with everything he had, and if I’d told you of my plan beforehand, your reaction wouldn’t have been genuine, and Madigan would’ve smelled a trap.”-BonesBones in this book, one word, amazing. The man just gets better with every book. His unfailing love for Cat is a beautiful thing to read. Also it helps that he's the sexiest vampire ever! Just sayin'. He is so supportive of Cat. Always having her back and protecting her. I have said it before and I will say it again Bones is perfect! Cat is still awesome, lovable, kick-ass, sassy Cat, but she is a little more mature in this book. I love seeing her growth, but I love that she is still Cat. Cat is fiercely loyal, she has a good heart, and will die to protect those she loves. Cat and Bones have one of the best relationships I have ever read. We as readers get to see it start in book one and with each book grow into something unforgettable. I fell in love with their love, and they will alway be my all time favorite couple.“I love you, Kitten.” How puny those words seemed compared to the feelings strafing mine, but his voice vibrated as he said them. Then he crouched beside me. “I would never hurt you that way save for one reason: to keep you safe. I can live with your anger, your retribution—bloody hell, despise me if you must, but don’t expect me to behave as though you aren’t the most important thing in my life. You are, and I will let no one, yourself included, bring you to harm.”-Bones“Since I have this power,” Bones continued, “you can trust that we won’t hurt you for the simple reason that if we wanted you dead, you already would be.” “Bones!” I snapped. “Way to win stepfather of the year,” Tate muttered.-Bones, Cat and TateThe plot of this book shocked me. When I thought Bones died I was freaking out. Tears welling up. And the heartbreak Cat felt, I felt. I enjoyed the hell out of the ass kicking her and Bones passed around to Madigan's men. I think that Madigan got off way to easy. I would have liked to have seen a little torture maybe, and a way worse death. I know bloodthirsty right? When I found out that Cat has a daughter, I freaked, damn I so didn't see that coming. I loved Ian in this book. He also gets better with every book and I can't wait until his book comes out. I can't wait to hear his back story and the woman awesome enough to win his heart! This book was an awesome end to one of my favorite series, but it's not the end of the night huntress world. There will be more Vlad and Ian, and I hope we get to see Katie grown up. Really if you haven't check this series out already, don't take my word on how epic it is, read it and experience the awesomeness for yourself.“Are you really my mother? The old man said she was dead.” I couldn’t help it; I glanced behind me. Immediately, I wished I hadn’t. The cautious hope in Katie’s gaze nearly brought me to my knees. I wanted to smother her with assurances that she’d never, ever be alone again, then I wanted to hug her until she forgot what it was like to feel afraid. The only urge stronger was my need to kill the filthy creature who threatened her. Since I had to do that before the other, it gave me the strength to turn around, facing my enemy instead of my daughter. “The old man lied. I am your mother, and I’m not leaving you again,” -Katie and Cat“You would give up so much for another man’s child?” “Katie is my child,” Bones responded instantly. “She may not be my biological daughter, but that merely means she’ll have two fathers.”-Marie and Bones