I marked this as spoilers because I have so much hate for the MMC that this review will absolutely come off as negative even though the author is excellent and should be given a chance based on your own preferences for her plot lines, and for no other reason.FIRST UPDATEI’m only 11% into this book and I can’t help disliking the characters this author writes. The betrayal plots this author has are exceptionally good. But when you write such unlikable characters I am completely turned off from reading these books. The MMC has called the FMC in his mind and to her face a loser and a homewrecking wh0re and I’m supposed to believe that her lifetime crush on him will lead her to enter into an FWB with him after all this?No way would that happen to someone who has worked so hard for everything she has, despite all the people still in her life keeping her down. Another thing I don’t like, is the elitist world this author has her characters in. It is so extremely depressing how miserable they all are, and yet NOBODY cuts these toxic people out of their lives, all because it’s their society and they have to stick together. It’s very Dynasty’esque. All of them stabbing each other in the back but still supporting each other because rich stays with rich.It’s not a vibe I like to read. This is the fourth book I’m reading by this author and I love the idea of the betrayal plot line but I don’t like anything else about her books. I’m not sure if I’ll walk away from this author because her books are so brutal and I look for that. But the HEA’s are not realistic or truthful to the characters or the plot of the book. Nearly all the MMC’s should have been kicked to the curb and replaced with better men who would respect the FMC’s from the beginning and not after they egregiously f”k up.UPDATEIn the first 15% of this book the MMC has derogatory thoughts and comments about everyone he knows, his sister, father, mother, his current girlfriend, his sisters fiance who is also his unwanted best friend or a best friend he outgrew but can’t get rid of, to be precise. He is so unkind and he hasn’t even started his FWB with the FMC yet. Ugh.17% UPDATEThat poopy pants shit is pissing me off. I don’t read romance so the MMC can be this immature over the age of 16. He’s close to thirty(!) and yet he keeps calling the FMC poopypants. I am absolutely disgusted (channeling Molly Weasley’s voice for this lol) by these characters.44% UPDATEThey are finally at the hooking up stage. And immediately after their first hook up, he still called her poopypants. What the fuck is wrong with this man?!? The FMC had also told him a sad truth about her childhood just before he called her that! The MMC has ZERO sympathy, empathy, ANY pathy(!) or any level of respect a person could have for anyone, for the FMC and I HATE HIM!!I literally bought every published work by this author, but idk if I can take these HORRIBLE MMC’s anymore. This is only the fourth book I’ve read from MA. I don’t feel like she writes romance. She writes betrayals. Going into any of her books for romance with HEA’s is the absolute WRONG mindset or understanding to have with this author. In which case, I’m 100% the wrong audience for her writings. I absolutely HAVE to have romance with HEA’s. The hate she invokes for her characters is NOT the feeling I want to have from my romance books.Be mad at them, sure I’m fine with that. Disappointed? I mean, who hasn’t been disappointed by loved ones a time or two in life and in fiction?!? Mr Darcy pissed me off with that stick up his ass in pride and prejudice, but I fell for his upper crust hoity toity grovel and rectifying actions. But HATE?? No, uh uh, nope, not looking for that kind of negativity in my life or books!! It’s why I never read wuthering heights. That is a hate book which uses love as a justification to be a terrible person. Heathcliff was a villain. A sad villain but a villain nonetheless. So if the hate I feel isn’t for a villain, I absolutely don’t want it. I’m NOT a forgive, forget, and fall in love with the trash kind of person. No sir!48% UPDATEThe confrontation, FINALLY! It was not that bad or a gut punch, which is what I read betrayal stories for, because the MMC has said all of this to the FMC’s face throughout this book so far. It wasn’t news that he believed this way about her. It wasn’t a shocker. The FMC knew, all the side characters knew. I as the reader ALREADY knew from page one that the MMC was a snobbish self centered POS who looked down on anyone outside of his rich social circle. So it was wasted page time to get to the halfway mark for this lackluster explosion of vitriol by the MMC that he has repeatedly said ad nauseam. I already know, I won’t believe the HEA so now I’ll probably skim it while rolling my eyes all the way. I wish I could lose calories that way because this is going to be a work out of epic proportions I’m sure. Smh.FINAL UPDATEI just want to clarify a few thoughts. Maya Alden is a phenomenal writer for betrayal stories! All of them have plot lines that are interesting if not original. The only original’ish one I’ve read so far is Best Served Cold, and that only because it was so brutal and a complete violation of the FMC no different than r@pe in my eyes. But that’s a thought for another review.Anyway, this author gives emotional depth up to a point with all her books I’ve read so far. Her FMC’s are hard working, ambitious women, to be admired at the very least. The MMC’s are absolute trash IMO, and a lobotomy is their only recourse to correct their deficiencies. But unfortunately and unbelievably, that’s not what happens to them.Usually their guilty consciences are what motivate them to develop alternate personalities and that is what the HEA’s are based on. Alongside a healthy heaping super mega dose of BBS from the FMC’s. I hate that but this author honestly pulls it off.As I mentioned above this is probably not for me, and I absolutely do NOT want people to turn away from this fantastic author because her stories are worth reading at least once. I have trouble with her books because her characters are personally loathsome to me. These are not characters I like to read about. There is nothing wrong with my honest opinion of that.Now as for the final thoughts on this book. I still stand by the HEA being unearned. The MMC just flooded the FMC with his presence in her everyday life. He saw her daily, texted her, let people know he was with her. Basically he actually dated her and that was all he did. His “I’m sorry’s” were sincere but I don’t really believe a person who was is so fundamentally flawed and raised to believe he was better than the “help” would change on a dime like that. It would have had to be a more significant situation, like he became broke or was somehow forced to learn to live more like average people, before I would acknowledge a true change in his character and morals. This is a man who was fully aware of the circular social sex circle he was involved in, but was somehow ignoring it to talk himself into marrying one of these promiscuous high society partners, all because she came from the “right” family. That was willful blindness right there. And no way you are going to tell me that STD’s weren’t floating around between all of them. Smh.Anyway, I’m basically saying there wasn’t enough on page anything to have changed the MMC for the better. Trauma changes people. This book had no trauma for the MMC. He just decided to be a better person to his FWB out of sheer guilt for words he had said many times before to her face.I admit I am low balling this story because I hated the MMC so much. I also don’t like reading supposed romances and being pissed off for 90% of the story because of a primary character. This book is definitely for someone because it was well written, but just not me. Good luck.