“I love you more in this moment than any moment that has come before it.”This book was a raw and emotional reminder of why I read romance. It reminded me of the small magic within the big hardships we conquer for love. This speed-train of a novel hit me hard enough for it to become one if not the best of my reads this year.All Your Perfectsacted very slowly like a vice on my heart and before I knew it - it had taken it and shattered it. I shall now write a resemblance of a review whilst picking up the pieces.“If you only shine light on your flaws, all your perfects will dim.”“I’m a grammar snob. It should be your perfections.”“That’s what makes me like it. The one word they misuse is perfects. Kind of ironic.”________________The StoryEmotional whiplash, Ms. Hoover. That is what awaits every single person that picks up this book you've created.I'm still crying. I finished this book at 4:06 in the morning and I'm still sitting here re-reading some of the paragraphs and sobbing to myself. I don't think I have evernotregretted reading a book like this one. (Sorry for the double negative, it's one of those days, bear with me)I don't plan on writing a small ass summary of what this book is about or a blurb. I can't, because nothing I can possibly write will do it justice. I also recommend going into this one blind. Let it hit you full force, you may be on the ground for the next couple of days - but I guarantee you, it's worth it. At least it is for me." Sometimes I look at him and feel such an overwhelming appreciation for him, I almost want to write thank-you notes to our exes."Sometimes, I think I appreciate Colleen Hoover when she marries the romance genre with sensitive and usually, skirted upon topics within literature. This very rarely is approached in today's writer society and so, it's colossal in it's results.I don’t five star often. In fact, those of you on here that are accustomed to my reviews know that it literally psychically hurts me to five star a book. That book would have affected me in such a way that every time I go back to loving it, there would be that familiar sting of worship. Not because I hate loving books, but because to me that last star is the seal of perfection. That last star means that I would take that book into fresh hell and back and still hold it like it’s everything beautiful in life. And near nothing - not even Shakespeare wrote perfection.I’ve also found that every book has many little imperfections. The Old Bard of Avon included in this, but it’s about how all those tiny little imperfections (this metaphor is becoming very rhythmic with this book’s title) wrap up tomakeit perfect. That’s that last star - in a world where nothing can be perfect, that last star is handed to how beautiful an author can execute it's imperfections."I recently concluded that there’s no other explanation for how you and I could end up on the same planet, in the same species, in the same century, in the same country, in the same state, in the same town, in the same hallway, in front of the same door for the same reason at the exact same time. If God didn’t believe in me, then I’d have to believe you were just a coincidence. And you being a coincidence in my life is a lot harder for me to fathom than the mere existence of a higher power.”The RomanceHere's where I think Colleen Hoover will win and lose some readers with this book:It's real.It. Is. So.Real.And in reality, happily ever afters don't come by the kilogram."If a scientist could figure out how to align the heart with the brain, there would be very little agony left in the world."The focus of this book was partly infertility. However, in my opinion - I think it was more sohope. It was inextricably embedded with every chapter. Hope is a fucking horrible thing that humans feel. Even more so, when there's nothing you can do to help you get what you are hopeful for.This love that Graham and Quinn shared was messy, beautiful and absolutely filled to the damn brim with hope. Their story showed an ugly truth to life, that hope isn't always something to lean on, rather something to keep close. There were some aspects in this book that I will talk about in the next section, only because I'm making everything above that last section spoiler free.I thought this story was chemical, it broke my heart in the best way and as much as I hurt - I didn't want it to end. I didn't want to leave Quinn and Graham. I wanted to see every detail of what their lives would turn out to be.“What’s the secret to such a perfect marriage?” The old man leaned forward and looked at me very seriously. “Our marriage hasn’t been perfect. No marriage is perfect. There were times when she gave up on us. There were even more times when I gave up on us. The secret to our longevity is that we never gave up at the same time.”Trigger Warnings[Please Do Not Read This Section If You Don't Want To Be Spoiled For The Book]There are a lot with this one. Some blatantly obvious, and some hidden under the surface:-Grief-Self Harm-Infertility-Infidelity-Anxiety-Miscarriage-Self HateI want to address one of the above that links to all of the above.The CheatingCheating in romance books are a hard pass for me and very rarely do I overlook it, unless the character walks away from whoever they have been cheated by. Because THAT is a good role modeling system for any young people that decide to read this book. I would hate for younger me to read a book where one of the MC forgives the other for cheating on them.Yet, here I am - giving this book five stars.This is not a bash on anyone that disliked this book because of this, nor does this in any way make your opinion inconsistent. We all feel differently when we read, and that's one of the most beautiful things about reading.All this is, is an explanation.Please note: Cheating is never justified.1) When we find out that Graham cheats on Quinn with a girl from work named Andrea.“I never slept with her, Quinn. We just . . . it never got that far. I swear.”He kissed her two work days, and only told Quinn because she found out.2) Quinn DOES NOT make any excuses to justify his action."He didn’t sleep with her? Does that make a difference? Does it hurt less? No. Does it make me less angry at him? No. Not even a little bit. The fact is, Graham was intimate with another woman. It wouldn’t matter if that consisted of a conversation, a kiss, or a three-day fuck-a-thon. Betrayal hurts the same on any level when it’s your husband doing the betraying."3) Graham gives a false reason as to why he did it, which he later on told Quinn the truth in his letter. His initial reason was"the whole time I had my eyes closed, I pretended it was you.”.4) Quinn ONCE AGAIN did not make any excuses for him and called him out on his bullshit.“So it’s my fault? Is that what you’re saying?” I turn my whole body toward him in my seat. “You don’t get the attention you want from me, so you find someone who reminds you of me? I guess as long as you pretend it’s your wife, it shouldn’t count.” I roll my eyes and fall back against my seat.5) Ater Grahams explanation of why HE fucked up and his address that their marriage is collapsing in that house, we hear this“I am not blaming you for what I did. It’s my fault. It’s my fault. I did that. I fucked up. But I didn’t fuck up because I was attracted to her. I fucked up because I miss you. Every day, I miss you.6) Quinn ONCE AGAIN calls bullshit stating that even through her depression and grief and infertility -"a good husband loves his wife through the good and the bad times. A good husband stands at his wife’s side through sickness and health, Graham. A good husband—a husband who truly loves his wife—wouldn’t cheat on her and then blame his infidelity on the fact that he’s lonely.”7) Later on we find out why Quinn forgives him and she clearly states "The reason HE allowed himself to fuck up is because he gave up on us."I am not in anyway justifying infidelity, because even in this case it was hard for me to get over. But what let me get over it was the fact that even the book didn't justify it. Sure, Quinn may not blame him - but the author opens up account for US to blame him. Additionally, for Graham to blame him. Through the love we see that he shines on Quinn is beautiful and magical - until it's not. But that's life. Cheating happens in life, but justifyingnevershould.We get Quinn's depressive state and her self hate through her not blaming Graham. She is so broken at the time that she understands why he did it. I understand why he did it. That does not in any which way make it okay. She forgives him because his infidelity is one of the lesser evils in their whole clusterfuck scenario. Yet, she know's it's him that fucked up and not her.“You say that like marriage is a Category 5 hurricane.” “Not all the time. But I definitely think there are Category 5 moments in every marriage.”