It's pretty bad. I was generous with 2 stars. Quite disappointing for this author and the writing was pretty poor. The storyline was unbelievable. The plot didn't make sense. The characters were almost all bad and the personalities didn't match from beginning to end. And it seems like almost every chapter was a time jump and really annoying. I mean two years later, four years later, two weeks later, a month later, 4 weeks later.... seriously. Instead of fleshing out the story there's time skips. IMO the story also tries to have WAAY too many characters. I couldn't keep them all straight even by the end of the book. I kept having to be like who? wait who?There's like 7 characters all starting with "M" names. Also a gratuitous amount of torture like every 4th chapter. When Romeo's angry or frustrated, he tortures people. But like... not in a dark book way. Just a he's "Mafia and that's what they do."This book is also SO FULL OF BBS! - Body Betrayal Syndrome which I am NOT a fan of!Elena- Second daughter to Russian Bratva Don "plain girl next door" type with ice blonde hair and violet eyes and curves for days (rolling eyes)- FMC ages 17 to 24 in book*Elena is treated terribly by her mother, beaten and whipped with belts, abused and thrown under the bus by her sister and her father just turns a blind eyeRomeo- Soon to be head of Italian Mafia Don (then Head)- black hair, blue eyes, model hot starts at 24 to 31 in book - MMCLiliya- First daughter of Russian Bratva Don- spoiled bitch, evil, sleeps around, model hot & tall with brown hair and brown eyes - OW*Liliya is given everything, spoiled little bitch, fake tits, fucks anything that moves and is worshipped by her motherLeonardo/Holly & Antonio/Maya- brothers to Romeo & their wivesMikail & Anastasia - Russian Don and Wife - parents to Elena (Raised Liliya as own)Mikail & Agy - Russian Don and sister of Anastasia - we learn birth parents of LiliyaMiguel & Renata - Mexican Cartel Jefe & Wife - cheats on wife with LiliyaMaxim & Valerie - Soon to be head of Italian Mafia- cousin of Liliya/ElenaDamien- Schoolteacher obsessed with Elena but sleeps with LiliyaMario, Andrei, Boris, Marco, Aldo and probably more I'm missing= Mafia guys/bodyguards/CaposSo the premise is Romeo (24) and Liliya (21) are supposed to enter into a contract marriage. Mafia son x Bratva daughter to prevent future skirmish's/war and form alliance. Liliya is a whore though. There's no polite way of saying it, that's literally her *character*.On the day she goes to meet Romeo she's two hours late, barely dressed, fucks a barista in the bathroom and had just had a abortion a week prior.Romeo sitting in the back watching all this sees the second daughter Elena (17) and falls instantly in love. He denies the contract with Liliya and wants a contract for Elena when she turns 19. Her father agrees but ONLY if he pays them 1 million dollars, lets Elena continue schooling and acts as a bodyguard for Liliya for two years because as it turns out Liliya has been fucking a married Mexican Cartel man and his wife has taken out a hit on Liliya. Romeo agrees.Elena finds out she's essentially sold to give her sister protection, the only thing she can do is finish school and she has to give an heir within 5 years or she'll lose everything including protection, clothes, money and her job no matter where she is in 5 years. It's a fate almost worse than death.Time skip- day of her wedding Elena reflects on the fact that she's marrying a man she hates, her parents sold her to save her sister, her "fiancee" has barely spoken to her in two years but cuddles her sister, holds her sisters hand, takes her sister out in public, puts his arm over her sister, sits her at his table while Elena sits by herself and she frequently finds them in dark corners or hallways and they always "jump apart" when she walks up to them so SHE believes she's marrying a man that loves her sister and who her sister loves. She's miserable.Her OWN mother even wears black funeral dress to her wedding while her sister wears a wedding gown and sits in the front row. Her new husband watches her sister pretty much their entire wedding ceremony. Like during vows and everything he's glancing at her sister not her.We get Romeo's point of view that supposedly excuses the fact that he'sin lovewith Elena despite spending NO time with her and he was only watching Liliya because he heard she was a target for assassination at his wedding so he "had to watch her".We also learn Elena/Liliya's mother changed the contract without anyone noticing (rolling my eyes!) forcing Romeo to continue protection over Liliya for life or the contract is void. If Liliya dies, it's void. And he "loves" Elena too much to let that happen. Again with this bullshit.His excuse this WHOLE shit show of a book is that hehas toremain cold to Elena in public, protect Liliya and act like Elena doesn't matter to him because the hitman might kill Elena to hurt Romeo and get to Liliya. WHAT?So he acts like he loves Liliya in public to protect her? And acts like Elena is shit to also protect her? Make it make sense.The worst part of this is that Elena MEETS Miguel and his wife Renata (who hired the hitmen) and they LOVE Elena and don't want to see her hurt. So the premise of this book... has no premise.This excuse also runs SIX MOTHERFLUFFING YEARS. ROMEO TREATS ELENA LIKE SHIT AND ACTS LIKE HE'S HAVING AN AFFAIR WITH HER SISTER FOR SIX FLUFFING YEARS TO PROTECT LILIYA EVEN THOUGH HE'S MADLY IN LOVE WITH ELENA??? THE ONLY TIME HE'S EVEN REMOTELY NICE TO HER IS WHEN THEY'RE FUCKING.Time Skip- Romeo literally treats Elena like shit. They've been married 4 years and he's only home to eat dinner (she makes for him by hand every night) and to fuck her.He's never there when she awakes, he's never home during the day or most the night, he never treats her respectively in public, he never acknowledges her in public, he flirts with Liliya and is caught in compromising positions with her on multiple occasions.He offers breakfast to Elena ONCE after 4 years and it happens to be Liliya's favorite and one Elena is allergic too. We also have an incident at Liliya's birthday where another assassination attempt on Liliya happens and Romeo COVERS LILIYA WITH HIS BODY AND KISSES HER. ELENA IS SHOT TWICE AND ROMEO DOESN'T EVEN FUCKING NOTICE FOR OVER AN HOUR.Elena finally decides she's leaving Romeo (she's been secretly on birth control) but now can't because Romeo found out and switched her BC with water then knocked her up so she "can't leave him."Elena's one tough moment is moving into a guest bedroom. She's head over heels for her moron husband though and sleeps with him at every chance. He basically snaps his fingers and her legs are spread. (The whole book!) She feels like because he took her V-card super gently and built her a library, that he's earned her heart even if he's in love with her sister. :::GAG:::Elena tries to leave him but her cousin Maxim tells Romeo she's looking at apartments. They fight and have sex. Romeo gets hurt torturing people and she cries and feels bad for him. They have sex. He has naked photos of her sister on his phone and excuses them by saying she sent them to him, he'd delete them but they somehow auto saved. MMMMK. But it's okay, he has a locked folder of naked photos of Elena, and videos of him having sex with Elena without her permission too.Liliya somehow knows about Romeo's dick piecing and thigh scar because she placed a hidden camera in their room. Riiiight.Liliya tries to kill Elena and the baby by poisoning her. She's locked away and Elena and Romeo are happy again. More sex.4 weeks later Liliya attacks Elena at school with a bat trying to kill her again this time with another teacher whose obsessed with Elena but slept with Liliya. (Story of this girl's life right?)Liliya gets killed, Elena gets beaten with a bat and almost loses the baby. She's sent into a coma for weeks.Randomly, her aunt Agy tries to kill her in the hospital because turns out Liliya was HER daughter (yep, product of cheating, their father slept with sisters) and dies too. What the freaking frack?!Elena gives birth, wakes up and supposedly happily ever after while racked with enormous guilt she killed her sister and her aunt died after trying to kill her.Now wasn't that the biggest mess you ever read? I didn't one star it because it was HIGHLY entertaining just so far out of the realm of believable you will roll your eyes so hard they might get stuck.