Maybe there was no right or wrong, no black or white, only a thousand shades of gray when it came to pain and what we each held ourselves responsible for.This is one of the most beautiful, tender, and heartwarming love stories I've ever read.TW:mentions of abuse, alcoholism, death of a loved one, attempted rapeArcher’s Voiceis described as a love story. A love story between Bree Prescott who moves into a small town in Maine to move a little bit away from her past. There, she meets Archer Hale, a boy who cannot speak and has been outcasted by everyone in his community. But Bree doesn’t see Archer as everyone else does—a person who can’t communicate, is heartless, and does not show emotion. She sees someone worth fighting for, someone who needs someone who can speak his own language, someone who understands him. And Bree became just that.But this is more than a love story.It is a story of two people finding strength in each other. It is about confronting your demons and nightmares, the obstacles in your life who make it difficult to continue moving forward. It is about moving forward after another and understanding that there will consistently be something more worth battling for.I supposed we all coped in our different ways—pain and healing as individual as the people who experienced them.When I readLeoandLeo's Chance, I was already doubting Mia Sheridan. I had heard so much about her and her Sign of Love series, so, naturally, I started in order. I didn’t likeLeoorLeo’s Chanceat all, butArcher’s Voicereminded me why it’s important to give an author another chance becauseArcher’s Voiceis one of the sweetest stories I’ve ever read. It is not too drama or action filled, the plot stays balanced out, the characters are likable and even relatable, and the romance is warm, sweet, and soft all around. It is full of grief and mourning, of anguish and sadness, as well as happiness and love, courage and determination.Then I would have come for you. I would have fought for you. But don’t you see, I had to fight for myself first. I had to feel like I was someone worthy of winning you.Bree is a very likable heroine. She’s in her 20s trying to get a new start in her life after witnessing her father’s murder. Without forgetting that traumatic night, she struggles with her phobia of thunderstorms.She felt really genuine, as if she were a character I was walking around with.I loved her inner thoughts because of how realistic they felt. There were times when I would feel embarrassed for her, but it was all in a good way. She didn’t feel fake, and I loved how she was someone who didn’t see Archer as everyone else did.Bree’s fear of thunderstorms and flashbacks to her traumatic night bring more emotion to the story. Dealing with phobias is really difficult, and sometimes, you can get lucky and have someone special that takes that pain away. I understood how Bree felt with wanting to get out of her town and move out. She set out with no plan, a few set of clothes, her dog, and barely enough money to survive a little bit, but she survived nonetheless and settled in. I loved her courageous act for doing that. I loved her new friends, especially Anne, her neighbor, and how easy she was to be approached by others. Honestly, sometimes it’s just best to read a story with no toxicity anywhere. Regardless of the drama surrounding this story, I love reading about characters who aren’t dramatic in every aspect and are easy to connect with. Bree was just that—energetic, lovable, approachable, and overall, determined.And her love slips quietly around me, holding me, anchoring me, reminding me that the loudest words are the ones we live.Archer is one of the most pure and most caring heroes I’ve come across reading. There’s something about virgin and shy men who let the lady take control until it’s finally their turn. Seriously, experience is overrated. Give me shy inexperienced men like Archer Hale—men who will ask their girl to teach them what they like because they don’t know what to do.Some may think that it's unappealing, yet I think that it's sweet. Society has normalized women being inexperienced and men being experienced too much that women get called a whore or slut and men are seen inferior for their lack of sexual activity. There’s nothing wrong with either, and I find it ridiculous how things such as virginity determine someone’s worth.Besides Archer being a virgin, shy, and self-conscious around Bree (which I found to beadorable), Archer is sweet and tender. I loved how comfortable he got to Bree to the point of forming a connection with her. I loved how he stepped out of his comfort zone to make her happy because that was all he cared about. His adoration and love for her was lighthearted and authentic for what it's worth, and I loved how he gradually let her inside his internal air bubble. I also appreciated how Bree herself was not someone to push Archer for any reason, whether it be sexually or romantically, and I appreciated how she didn't overstep boundaries. They were both so respectful of each other, and their relationship was one of the healthiest I have read about.She carried the guilt of not fighting when she thought she should have, and I carried the scar of what happened when you did.As I was reading, I made small notes on my phone with Archer appreciation questions, and it’s made me realize my standards are now out of this world for how high they are. This is what I wrote:Do men like Archer Hale exist? Let’s see...1. Will he walk 1 mile in the pouring rain so he can be at least near you because he knows you hate thunderstorms?2. Will he go through multiple potato chip bags just so he can get the ones you specifically like, aka the folded ones?3. Is he a virgin, self-conscious, and asks you to teach him what you like because he’s unsure?4. Will he step out of his claustrophobic self by hanging out with his horrible cousin just because you asked him to and because all he cares about is your happiness and if you’re happy he’s going out then he’s happy?5. Will he give you a bouquet of Almond Joy candy bars because that’s how you two met?6. Will he let you give him a haircut and do whatever you want?7. Will he notice the smallest things of you, like the way your smile forms and the color your hair turns under the sun?8. Will he ask you what some of your lists are, like a calm list, to keep you entertained and occupied as you’re on a road trip?The answer is most likely no, or none of us have met anyone like him.There’s nothing to find out. What I know, is that you walked through my gate that day, and I lost my heart. But not because it could have been any girl—because it was you. I lost my heart to you. And, Bree, in case you’re wondering, I don’t ever want it back.The sex in this was nothing but gentle. Sweet and gentle are really the words to describe this entire book. It was slow and kind, and I thought it was portrayed, described, and written really well and realistically. Besides Bree teaching Archer a few things, I loved how careful he still was. He was still new to it all, but he also didn’t rush. While he caught up fast and learned quickly, he treated Bree with nothing but gentleness and protectiveness. Not to mention how much better I found it to be compared toLeoandLeo's Chance. The chemistry and sexual tension between Archer and Bree was heartfelt through every occasion. Even though Archer is deaf and cannot speak, his love and care for Bree was shown in his actions. The love they both had for each other didn't need to be spoken because it was felt in every other way.But aside from the sweetness and tenderness, what really tugged at my heart is Archer’s muteness and disability.He was defined for his disability, and he couldn’t really do anything about it. I don’t have a hearing disability, but I have a neurological disability, and there’s been moments where I’ve been defined by it. People assume that because of it, I can’t go out and hang out with them, or they believe it’ll cause some sort of conflict. Archer’s muteness didn’t define him, but others did. He was alone and isolated, and he couldn’t communicate with anyone. Everyone assumed he was weird or mentally ill because of it, and it really shows how ignorant people can be.You can tell a lot about someone who judges without knowing the persons full story.I pitied Archer, and I hate using that word, but I did. He needed someone in his life to help with the pain he was carrying of being alone. He was misjudged, looked down upon, and cast away, and he had no way to defend himself. When Bree ran away from him, I felt his emotions and how much it hurt him to see her run off from him because he couldn't call out to her.I had learned recently that often, love was all about learning to speak a person’s language.A lot of the moments between Archer and his disability brought sadness to me and tears on other occasions. He deserved nothing but love and comfort, and while I was glad Bree was there for him, a lot that happened to him made me realize something:People truly care about you when you're gone.My dad told me that nobody in this world is your true friend unless 1) they visit you in jail and 2) they visit you in the hospital bed. He told me that it isn't until you are gone from this world that people begin to mourn you and feel your absence. My dad doesn't want to be buried and doesn't want a funeral. He tells me, "What's the point? I'm dead anyways."I finished this at around 2 AM. I started crying at around 1:30 AM. I couldn’t bring myself to finish the last pages (if you’ve read this, you most likely know why), and I was worried I wouldn’t be able to trust Sheridan again. But alas, folks, she wasn’t that ruthless. I cried for Archer and Bree, but I also cried for the love between them. It felt so real, and I became so emotionally connected to the two of them, that I couldn't imagine them being apart from each other. Their love felt so vivid, clear, and real.Archer and Bree, without a doubt, have become one of my favorite couples. They make me believe in love during the times I don't, and they bring comfort to the times I feel like love is dying. Fictional or not, love stories like these bring a sense of comfort to me. There is something beautiful about finding your soulmate in the places you least expected to.Behind all the delight and heartbreaks,Archer's Voiceis about finding and using her voice. It is a message to those who cannot speak, and a message to those who choose to listen. It is a lesson worth learning, one that teaches you to listen to others, and to listen to other's stories, because you never know how much pain someone is going through until they tell you.Thank you, Mia Sheridan, for making me believe that love is possible in all forms.And remember to always try and practice kindness.“My wounded healer, my beautiful Archer.”