Warning: spoilers abound.Apparently, I’m a glutton for punishment. Me and this book/trilogy are not friends. Not at all. It's like a train wreck—I don't want to look, but can't stop myself.Only five short days have passed since Ava left Jesse, and her entire world has ended. She’s depressed and having a meltdown, reminiscing about her epic love—you know, her month-long relationship with Jesse.Of course, this being only the second book, it stands to reason that their separation won’t last long, and, just like that, they’re back together. Shocked? Yeah, neither am I.Not much has changed. Jesse is still a domineering, overly possessive, control freak…times infinity. He’s a stage-five clinger. He continually wants all of Ava’s time and attention, wanting her to spend every second with him all day, every day. She’s a possession, a toy that he refuses to share. Nothing about this behavior is sexy. It’s scary. Jesse is a psycho.‘Watch your fucking mouth.’ he yells.Pot, meet kettle. Kettle, meet pot. Jesse treats Ava as if she were a misbehaving child. Ava is a grown woman. She doesn’t need this man-child correcting her language. As usual, however, Jesse has absolutely no regard for Ava’s feelings. He does want he wants, when he wants. On the other hand, Ava has the backbone of a spineless chicken, so it’s no wonder Jesse tramples all over her.Oh, and don’t worry. Jesse’s not an alcoholic.Except that he is.Alcoholism, or any addiction, really, is a life-long recovery, and something a person has to work hard at every day. It doesn't just simply go away on its own. The narrative would have readers believe that Jesse doesn’t “need” alcohol, ignoring the fact that it was made clear, on more than one occasion, that he can’t stop once he starts. That’s a problem, one made even more apparent when he drinks himself into a coma.Unfortunately, everyone in this book is in denial.1:‘He’s not an alcoholic in the classic sense of the word. He’s not obsessed with alcohol, Ava. He drank to lighten his foul mood, to fill a gap. Once he starts, he can’t stop.’2:‘I’m not a raving alcoholic, Ava. I admit I get carried away once I do have a drink and I find it hard to stop, but I can take it or leave it. I was in a bad place after you left me. I just wanted to numb the pain.’3:‘I am not a fucking alcoholic. If I drink now, it will be because you make me crazy mad!’ He shouts the last bit in my face.And then, of course, Ava puts the blame on herself.1:I glance at the bottle and notice it’s sealed and full, but it’s still there and something made him put it there…me. I’m the reason for his screwed up mind, his ridiculously ambitious objectives and his meltdowns. This is my entire fault. I’ve made him into a neurotic control freak.2:‘How can you need me if I make you do this to yourself?’ I ask tiredly. ‘You’re more self-destructible now than you were before me. I’ve made you need alcohol, not want it. I’ve made you into an unreasonable, crazy man, and I’m certainly not stable anymore. Don’t you see what we’re doing to each other?’3:I blank my mind of everything except that, the music fades and I brace myself for my own punishment – my punishment for reducing Jesse to a fraught mess of a man, for making him need alcohol, not just want it, for turning him into an uptight, neurotic freak…for making him do this to himself.That last quote was from a scene that made me rage. In an idiotic bid to get Jesse see her point of view, Ava has some random man at the Manor whip her back raw—you know, the same way that Jesse had Sarah whip his. Why would he go to Sarah with such a request, you might ask? The answer is simple: to stop himself from drinking. But, wait, he doesn’t have a problem, remember?‘Nothing will ever hurt me as much as seeing you doing that to yourself. That will kill me, nothing else. If you punish yourself again, then I will too.’These two idiots deserve each other. Truly.As if we didn’t already know, Jesse issecretlytrying to knock Ava up—against her wishes, no less—to trap her into staying with him. He makes her tell him repeatedly that she won’t leave him, not that he’d ever let her, but her word isn’t assurance enough for him. Because Jesse is an insecure lunatic, his solution is to bring a baby into their dysfunctional and extremely unhealthy relationship. Brining a baby into an environment like that is outrageous. Even after Ava finally puts the pieces together, she lets it slide, just like everything else.I didn’t think it was possible, but I stand corrected. Ava is an even bigger pushover than she was in the last book. Arguing with Jesse is a complete waste of time. She gives in as soon as he gets his hands on her. Jesse is a bully and tramples all over her. She knows this, and still, unbelievably, allows it to happen. I just can’t with her. She’s a moron.Jesse is also guilty of the following, none of which are even remotely okay: hiding Ava’s birth control pills, using sex as a weapon to get what he wants, and invading and taking control of Ava's personal and professional life. This doesn’t even begin to cover all the lying and manipulation, both in and out of the bedroom. Oh, and we can add cheating to the list, as well.And then there’s Kate. Who needs enemies when you have a friend like her? I’m sorry, but she’s a terrible friend. She’s secretive, willing to hide things from her so-called best friend on Jesse’s behalf—information that pertains to Jesse and his private life—not because she knows that Jesse is a good guy, but because he bought her a new work van to keep her quiet about what she knows about the kind of business he operates.I wans't a fan of the writing. It was pedestrian and bland. The book could also use a good editor. Almost all the dialogue tags were punctuated incorrectly, with periods at the end of the dialogue where commas should've been used instead. I'm of the opinion that if one is going to put their book out on the market for people to buy, then it should be properly edited.His eyes turn black. ‘Don’t say things like that, Ava.’When did this turn into a paranormal romance? Human eyes do not turn black when one is angry. Just saying.Sex, fighting, and more sex. That's about all this book had to offer. We did eventually learn how old Jesse was. Not that it mattered, because he sure as hell didn't act his age. He was prone to acting like an adolescent. We also learned some things about his past sexual encounters.‘Drink and sex go hand in hand for me.’So, as you can see, alcohol wasn't his only problem. As far as any real plot progression went, that was the extent of it. In between the excessive amount of sex scenes, there wasn't much of a story at all.