3.5 starsMy first official Maya Alden review ever! It was high time!Let me preface my review by first saying that ever since they have started being published, I have compulsively bought all of her books in the Best and Modern Vintage series seeing as they were always being touted in every angst/grovel group. And I have skimmed-read all of said books because I know me, and as such know that though I love to immerse myself in good angst, I am also very skittish for rage-inducing angst so I need plenty of mind bracing before going full fledged into reading and reviewing. Thus, skim-reading helps in defusing some of my pre-emptive anxiety and also gauge the level of rage-read (that will trigger extensive highlights, comments, emojis while reading, and produce inevitably a written diatribe as a review!).Having done that exercise repetitively for all the books I mentioned, I arrived at the conclusion that (a) MA was the supreme queen of dramatic angst scenes, knowing perfectly how best to hurt her heroines for best effect and induce empathetic tears from me; but (b) there will always be one big 'Snag' that will derail the path of what should have been an epic grovel, often in having her heroines just give in too early. For all these reasons, I had never mustered the mental energy to full-read a MA book because I knew I would have to process and write too much for one book. Until now, when I finally thought 2025 was high time to take a big breath and have a go at it.This book had so many facets, some that were real brilliant and some that were inescapably rage-inducing. I am already tired after finishing this read (and my tablet is quite tired with me and all my highlights and comments 😅), so I will try to make it short.Things I loved🏛Betrayal scenes: top notch angst. There were two main scenes where Gabe showed what a low-life scum he was, lashing out low-blow insults so gratuitously (one in public) using knowingly the insecurities of Aurora. Ouch, that hurt real deep. I wanted Gabe head on a spike for this! MA is really a true queen for such climactic scenes 👏!🏛Writing style: very engaging, so easy to read. Even while raging to heaven, I kept turning the pages.🏛Aurora's set down of Gabe: I loved she gave him straight (and extensively) to his face (34% mark) all the ways in which he hurt her all through their toxic relationship. This gave me hope that the redemption part would be epic.🏛OW drama: very, very nasty. I don't need OTT OW drama to enjoy a book, but I have to admit that MA knows how to draw out maximum effect by making her evil OW stink the worst they can. No limit to their perfidy! The OW here did cause loads of chaos.Things I raged about- warning, this gets to rant level real fast, so feel free to skip 😅!🍸The Snag - happens at the 58% mark: So after making me suffer and cry along with Aurora in the first 25% of the book, the healing part was besmirched by Aurora simply ceding to Gabe's bulldozing. Without even the hint of the start of a real grovel, the guy just shouts at her to either tell him she doesn't love him anymore or give him a second chance.... and she just gives in. I was so disappointed by her. Sure, she made him dance for a long time after that but no, I can't approve that she did not let him figure out a decent grovel before giving him a chance. Apparently, Gabe needed to be given a chance firstbeforeeven starting to grovel in earnest... 😠🍸The grovel, what grovel?: This is what Gabe considers as grovel - say sorry, whine, plead (with forceful tones at time), use his mama, bulldoze/ force Aurora's hand. Sure, once Aurora accepts to give him a second chance, they go on dates, they discuss, postpone sex etc... but much of it happened off-page. And for the final big hurdle, he even had the temptation to leave Aurora again to save his relationship with his daughter - with Aurora's self-sacrificing blessing this time. I get that Gabe was stuck between the proverbial rock and hard place, and it had shades of realism of how bad divorces can go, but all in all it smothered the romance vibe big time. What flaky grovel there was, felt so insubstantial compared to the level of the betrayal scenes. Of course, Aurora is also guilty of loving him so much and having a too big heart. *sigh* they are right for each other, but romantic me still feels so underwhelmed.🍸Gabe the beta Hero: At the beginning, he was a supreme selfish prick, only concerned with his happiness, his daughter, his pleasure, his time - he used Aurora so horribly. And the worst, was that he knew it and never did a thing to change things. His ILUs sounded super hollow as a result. (Of course, Aurora enabled him when she always conceded and never made a fuss, but her background gives her some lee-way). All this points to terrible beta behaviour, where Gabe was never willing to face things and simply convinced himself that things must resolve themselves just because he wished them to (aka Magical Thinking, as coined by my sister). To keep the peace with the OW he often resorted to just shutting his mouth or just protested mildly over and over again. I expected some character development where he would man up and prove to be solid for Aurora. But no, even while he was supposedly grovelling, he was always whining that things were not going the way or the pace he wanted, without actually putting in real efforts. And by the end of the book, he had not improved. The way he was helpless and simply allowed the OW to get away with whatever manipulation she was pressing on their daughter... disappointing. He angsted but never concretely fought her. With all his means, he could have hired PIs to dig dirt on her, spy on her, place cams in her house etc... but no, he just whined and eventually, it was his daughter who spilled it all. Terrible beta guy that was hard to cheer on as a Hero character.🍸The plot conduct: it started so well with the toxic relationship, the betrayal climax, the break up, the soul-eating remorse. Of course, the Snag and the inadequate 'grovel' were disappointing, but what killed even more my enjoyment in the second half was how suddenly the focus shifted from Gabe having to prove himself / repair his fuck ups, to Aurora now being the main source of hampering their relationship progress with her insecurities. I get she had a problematic past, but for her to be made (intentionally or not) as the main stumbling block pushed it too far. If I have had an epic grovel along the way, sure why not delve into some psycho-soul-searching on her part, but as such, in effect, it made Gabe get off too easily imho.Given more energy, I would probably want to write more, with quotes and all. But I think I have had enough for one day. Bottom line is that MA is so brilliant for the first part of the story, but unfortunately, it's not wrapped up with a pretty bow by the end. And since I know that this pattern gets repeated in the other books, it will be some time before I muster the time to review another one.