3.5 stars of mixed feelings as you’ve rarely seenAh, Julianne Donaldson. She has such a power for weaving stories that throw you in a complete whirlwind of emotions, whether good or bad; her writing is so elating, vivid, and beautiful, it makes the simplest characters and plot points really stand out and come alive. She is really talented, and so far all the books I've read by her made me feel strongly.Unfortunately, in the case ofBlackmoore, I found myself equal parts enraptured and annoyed for most of the story. If it weren't for the sigh-worthy Henry Delafield and the beautifully enthralling romance, which completely saved the face of this book, I would rate this 1 star without preamble. I suspect my reasons for disliking certain aspects of the book are purely personal; ultimately,Blackmooreis an excellent novel. It only happens to feature one too many of my literary pet peeves.First of all, although a lover of the Gothic atmosphere in Regency romances, I was never one for serious over-the-top dramatic theatricals à laWuthering Heights, and this book was a little too much on the wildly angsty side to suit me. I loved the old-mansion-against-the-sea setting, and the secret passages, the moors, and the overall darker atmosphere than inEdenbrooke, but the tendency of certain characters to act like they were cast in a Shakespearean tragedy, and breaking into emotional fits over nothing grated on my nerves a lot. I like emotional books, I don’t mind a certain turmoil, I can even tolerate crazy depending on the book, but all things in moderation, I beg of you. Intense theatricals and endless wailings did not suit this book, which is supposed to be an engrossing Regency romance, and not Emily Brontë’s second novel.But really, the major thing that didn't work for me inBlackmoorewas the heroine. At seventeen, Kate Worthington is a lost young woman seeking liberty and self-realization who feels misunderstood by her entourage because her goals and dreams are different than other young women's. She has vowed never to marry forreasons, and instead wishes to travel to India for otherreasons.I hadn't met her for more than five pages than I was already feeling an irresistible urge to slap some sense into her.Kate is moody, immature, and completely irritating. When things don't go according to her plans, she throws a hissy fit. When someone acts in a different way than she would herself, she complains. When her childhood friends invite other people to stay in their house with them, she automatically hates them. When she is told to remain in her room, she whines.I thought Marianne Daventry was annoying inEdenbrooke...but forget it, Marianne is bloody awesome. She may have been silly, twirling and dazzlingly blind, but boy, I'll take a dozen Mariannes over Kate any day.The fact that Miss Worthington is the narrator made everything worse, because there was no getting rid of her. No break here and there to read just about Henry. Nope, you're stuck with her the whole time. And man, is her life ever difficult. She has a family, a house, servants to tend to her every need, good looks, and wonderful friends. So what's the difference between her and any other seventeen year-old Regency miss of her position?Kate is trapped.Oh, no, how awful, she's never allowed out of the house or something? She's been grounded for something terrible? She has an evil step-mother who is keeping her locked up?No, no. She onlyfeelstrapped. Caged, you know. Like a bird.There was such an overuse of the words “bird”, “trapped” and “cage”, that Kate did not justfeellike a bird, she dashed well nearbecamea bird! She’s trapped, she’s caged, she can’t fly, she needs to find her wings, she finds a bird, people call her “little bird”, she loves birds, she has a bird-room, she reminds people of a bird, she knows bird-songs, she loves listening to birds, she goes outside early every morning to listen to birds, she thinks Blackmoore looks like a big bird, EVEN HER EYEBROWS LOOK LIKE THE SLANTED WINGS OF A BIRD.BIRD, BIRD, BIRD, ‘TIL YOU’RE UTTERLY SICK OF THE WORD!Now look here, I understand the imagery, and feeling trapped, disoriented, and unsure of life. I understand the fear of the unknown and the fear of not realizing your dreams. And ultimately, I can even understand feeling like a bird in a cage. But despite the abusive imagery, it’s not the fact the we have a caged heroine as the main character that bothered me, it was the total lack of reason she had to feel caged. Whatwasthere to feel caged about?Her father was indolent and unconcerned, and did not govern her with an iron hand. She was not married to a tyrannical husband, or even engaged to some decrepit old man twice her age. Um, hello, this book is set in 1820, if you’ve checked “none of the above” to all three statements, YOU ARE PRETTY DARN LUCKY AND SHOULD BE HAPPY TO BE SO FREE. Yes, her mother is a slut, her sisters are stupid, her friend Sylvia is a little vapid, and yes every single female character in this book was unbearable, but girl. Seriously. You’re seventeen, free to roam about, unmarried and unengaged, and you complain about feeling trapped? Trapped fromwhat??Oh, that’s right.India. How could I forget, when we were beat up over the head continuously with that name? Because Miss Kate has put it into her head that India is the only means to get out of her cage, she will go to any lengths to achieve her goal, even if it means playing with men’s affections to receive and reject three proposals, per her mother’s bargaining conditions to let her go on her God-forsaken trip. See what I mean by having problems with the plot? Why would a trapped heroine try to get un-trapped by positioning herself in the most awkward position of having to flirt with and encourage men to propose, only to reject them after? Can she not foresee the disastrous consequences her actions could have? No, she doesn’t. Because all Miss Kate can think about is India.India is salvation. India is liberty. India is freedom. India is the key. INDIA IS EVERYTHING!!! Butwhy, I kept asking myself. Why India? Why do you think you’ll be free if you go to India? Why do want to go to India for anyways? Missionary work? Helping the poor? Building a school? Teaching less fortunate children? Nurse infants?Well guess what y’all. Kate just wants to go to India PERIOD. Besides the fact that she wants adventure and wants to travel, there is no legitimate reason for her to want to get there. No reason why she’d pick India in particular. No reason why she’d be any freer in India than she is in England. And, above all, no plan at all, no goal to even accomplish something even remotely useful in India.So, I repeat, WHY THE HECK DO YOU WANT TO GO TO INDIA???If it had been just a passing fancy, you know, a faraway dream, something she’d hoped to get to one day, it would have been perfectly fine. But it wasn’t that at all. Oh, no. It was a serious, all consuming obsession. And the fact that it had no fundamental reason to have become such an obsession drove me completely up the wall.So, we’re off to a really bad start, with a birdie-heroine in a cage who wants to go to India and whines and complains about everything and anything. I don’t mind telling you that I was ready to DNF this many times, but something here has to be said about Ms. Donaldson’s undeniable talent, because I forged on and the more I went, the more I was able to oversee the birds and the cages, and Kate and her India.Don’t get me wrong, they were still there and still annoying, but as the romance unfolded and Henry quite literally started to make me swoon, I was able to forget them momentarily, or convince myself that it didn’t matter anymore. Guys, I have to be honest, as annoying as this book could be sometimes,it’s one of the best romances I’ve ever read. I still melt a little bit inside when I think about it. It was justsoromantic, and beautiful, and vivid and heart-wrenching. *sigh*I admit it, I’m a sucker for perfect-moonlight-fantasy-romance full of impossibly fairy-tale like scenes of impeccable kisses and sublime love declarations. We all need the stuff of dreams sometimes. And I don’t know how Julianne Donaldson does it, but she is definitely an expert at creating that sort of romance. She wrote those parts so skilfully and beautifully that I often found myself quite loving the book. Her writing is just gorgeous, and her choices of romantic scenes are incredibly well-thought.And I don’t know how she does it either, but she seems to have a knack for creating annoying heroines but absolutely perfect, sublime heroes that are sure to make you dream. Henry Delafield is no exception, and I’d do anything to marry him tomorrow. Even study a bird manual or take a trip to India! ;)I loved this book. I was annoyed beyond measure with this book. I hugged this book. I also threw it violently on my bed. I swooned over this book, and I swore over this book. It was wonderful, exhausting, and settling on a rating has never been so difficult!