A gazillion stars...One of my all-times-favorites!Is there anyone who still hasn't read this book?If so, you don't know what you are missing!Please do read this book.This isa spoiler-free reviewwhich will mess with your mind as much as the book does! Go ahead and give it a chance! You won't regret, I promise...But please... pretty please, read this book without knowing the plot twist.DO NOT READ any spoilersanywhere, which would definitely ruin the book for you.The blurb and the reality:I must say that this book is nothing like you may assume after reading the blurb. This is an unbelievable journey,a mind-blowingreading experience.The blurb might make you think that this is going to be a dirty book – a love affair of a woman with low moral values with two men that are the opposite of one another. Oh, the reality is far from it, believe me!Brant:Became a tech billionaire by his twentieth birthday.Has been in a relationship with Layana for 3 years.Has proposed 4 times. Been rejected 4 times.Lee:Cuts grass when he’s not banging housewives.Good with his hands, his mouth, and his cock.Has been pursued relentlessly by Layana for almost 2 years, whether he knows it or not.Our heroineLayanasays:Go ahead. Judge me.You have no idea what my love entails.I love two men.I f*ck two men.If you think you’ve heard this story before, you haven’t.I hear you saying this:Yes, you will be saying it a lot...She will shock you, shake you, irritate you.You will hate her, you will despise her, you will not understand her for a while.And when you understand her...You will love her, you will adore her, you will applaud her...You will be sorry for her, you will ache for her...You will desperately wish a HEA for her...No I am not kidding... I am dead serious!As soon as you start the book, in the prologue, you will read about how Layana stalked Lee (the second man in her life) and how she ended his relationship with another woman.These are her words of victory:“That’s right. Turn and walk your pretty self away from this man. He will no longer touch your face. He will no longer make love to your body. He is mine. I will take your place...Victory is mine. I grinned, giving myself a virtual high five, and put my Mercedes into drive... Maybe after my massage I’d swing by my boyfriend’s office. Drop off a sandwich for him. Celebrate my victory with the other man in my life.”Do you feel like this? I did :)Yes, Layana really stalks Lee, even hires a private detective, makes careful and evil plans and ends his relationship with his girlfriend Molly.“Hello stalking, I am Layana. Pleased to make your acquaintance.”“I sat and watched. Focused in and spied. Growled into a stale handful of nuts as I saw pieces of what might be love...I needed a plan. I had seen enough. What I needed to figure out was how to destroy them.”“Soon, everything would be fixed. Soon, Lee would be fully mine. Tomorrow would be a big day. A relationship-ending one.”Now, how can you love this heroine? How can you feel anything positive for a woman who says this and does all these things?Well, I loved her. I adored her. I felt sorry for her...Hey,DON’T JUDGE ME, read it and adore her yourself...After reading the blurb and the prologue, and some chapters, you will have some clear assumptions. Let me tell you thatYOU CAN’T BE MORE WRONG.This book will mess with your mind until you finally learn the facts. But the facts won’t come easily. There will be breadcrumbs in every chapter, one contradicting the other...You will be like this - constantly:And like this:This book will shock you in each chapter. Just as you think you have understood something, in the next chapter, you will see that you can’t be further from the truth.The writer will play with you like a puppet and you will definitely enjoy the ride.After finishing the book, if you go back and reread it, you will see that the writer has, in fact, been telling you exactly what is happening without actually saying it, but you are clueless while reading it, unfortunately :)It just is so cleverly written that it is impossible not to admire the talent of the writer... That was really refreshing and nothing similar to anything I have read before.Let me shock you a little bit more (This is a spoiler-free review - no worries:)The title of the book isBLACK LIES.Who tells black lies in this book?Well – everybody does:“True love makes a person reckless, makes them take risks and make sacrifices. True love tests the boundaries of our person, makes us yearn to be better and fight for the ground we stand on. I will fight for this love. Lie for it. Steal for it. It is worthy of that. This love is worth the unsaid truths. The hidden lies.”“I might have gone years without discovering his secret. He certainly hid it well enough... I wasn’t the only clueless one.”***“It took nine months for me to discover the secret. It could have taken even longer. I look back now and see very little clues.”***“It was a wonderful story. Poetic in its portrayal of his life. Endearing. The creation of this tortured, confused man before me. Perfectly explained his desperation for love, mixed with a side of I’llNeverBeGoodEnough. Too bad it was all a lie. I laid in his arms and wondered how many women he had told it to.”***“God. I knew. So many things wrong with this picture. But God, it felt so good. I stared into his eyes, listened to him whisper my name, and enjoyed every second of the ride. For those minutes, I forgot about Brant, about Tennis Barbie, about anything but him and me and that moment of time. I was his rebound. He was my sidepiece. And both of us wanted more. At least I did. Maybe anything else was a lie I was telling myself.”***“Lies. Lies are keeping us apart. I started this relationship with one lie... She started this relationship clean and innocent, and has piled on the lies since then.”In the end, you will understand why they have been telling lies all along...How about safety? How about cheating???Read this and surprise yourself even more!Brant:“I just want to know why. Why does she cheat on me? What do I not provide for her? What part of me is not good enough? Why, when her love for me burns bright enough to singe… does she sneak off with a stranger? My biggest fear is that she loves him. My biggest fear is that he has wormed his way into her heart. I love her too much to share her. I hate him with a vengeance that turns my blood white.”Lee:“I love you too much to leave you. But I can’t do this. It is killing me.”Then he said the words I dreaded, the ones I never wanted to hear but that had stalked me in my dreams.“You have to choose. You have to.”“Tell me what you want. If you want it, I’ll leave.Not for him. I’ll never do anything for him.But for you, I’ll do it.I’ll fucking kill myself...”Jillian(Brant’s aunt) when she sees Layana with Lee:“You selfish stupid girl.” She pointed a strong finger toward the bar. “He’ll leave you, Layana. One day, you’ll wake up, and that boy in there will be gone . Brant loves you. He’ll be with you forever.”Layana:“Yes, I am taking the biggest gamble of my life. I love them both too much to do anything else.”Feeling like this?OK, now... Stop... Don’t judge! You will love them...I hear you saying, "WTF ?" But believe me, nothing is as it seems...You think you have understood what this book is about now that you have read some quotations... right?Sorry to tell you but you haven't!Read and see what I mean!Theirs was a wonderful love, so deep, so strong, so unique...Are you telling meWTF??!!again?Are you saying, "No way with all these lies and the cheating and the stalking and evil plans!"?Yes, I am telling you exactly that. ... That their love was unique.You will only understand how deep and precious their love is when you read the book as the story unfolds itself...OK, now... Feel more shocked, I am saying it: I am definitely, absolutely and completely#TEAM LAYANA...You can’t believe it, right?Go read it and you will be #Team Layana, too...Somewhere in the book, Layana tells us, the readers, the following words below:“I know you don’t understand. I know you hate me. But you will soon find out... And once you find out, you will understand. You would have done the same thing.”And I am answering for myself:I might have done the same thing!Please... Drop everything and read this book.I am sure at the end, you will be saying,“Wow... Just wow...”Taking a plot like this is risky.(And while saying “a plot like this”, I don’t mean “cheating” at all!!! Don't go and read a review where you will learn "what the plot is actually about". Please, make sure you yourself learn it while reading).OK, I was saying that dealing with a plot like this is risky because if you fail with a plot like this, you fail big. But then, if you succeed with a plot like that, it is bound to be a masterpiece.And this book is A MASTERPIECE, just brilliant!I hopeI have been able to mess with your mind enoughto intrigue you to drop everything and read this book :)P.S. Please... I am saying it maybe the 10th time but ... please read this book without knowing the plot twist. DO NOT READ any spoilers that would ruin the book for you because then you will miss a hell of an experience.