⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱*Wasn't the right time to re-read*⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱This review is purely for me and might contain spoilers and it does contain facts from the book to keep myself in the known at all time. It's also very long and somewhat detailed.Third re-read: 25.06.2018I'm sorry to say that I wasn't enjoying this book as much as Ishould'veand this annoys the shit out of me. I mean, it's supposed to be one of my favorite book of all time, and yet, I barely got through and I kept holding putting it on hold; taking breaks all the time. Don't get me wrong, I still love the most powerful demon in existence,Knox Thorneand I do still adore tattooistHarper Wallis. I do. Well it is safe to say that I found nothing wrong Knox, he still holds my heart, but I found myself all‘meh’about Harper. This saddens me a whole lot. I feel like I'm ripping old pieces of me. It's like I'm not likinganythinganymore.I'm starting to feel... numb.This scares me, because I'm struggling with finding books to read, books to like, and I keep re-reading and I barely get through them :O I seriously need to get out of this numbness. Seriously. PS: Harper has been taken away from my ‘favorite female character’ shelf, and book has been taken away from my ‘favorite’ shelf :(“You could never desire a man you could control.”“Is that a fact?”“It is. You’re a very strong personality, Harper. You would only be attracted to someone who’s either stronger or equally strong.”It pissed her off that he’d read her so easily. “And you think you’re stronger, don’t you?”“What I think is that when I’m deep inside you, neither of us will care.”Harper shook her head. “It won’t happen.”His eyes bled to black as his demon pushed for supremacy. “It will, little sphinx.” The voice was toneless, flat. “I promise you that.”About Harper Wallis:Harper doesn't have wings; a sphinx without wings, though she does have the marks that looks like tattoos of wings on her back. They should become real wings at her command. But they’d never come. She can’t throw orbs of hellfire either. However Harper could infuse hellfire into any object, making them instantly deadly. A blade. A pen. A hairclip. Anything. Her touch can cause soul-deep pain. A rare ability. In many ways, it makes her stronger than demons who can throw hellfire orbs. She can make anything into a weapon. Jolene, her grandmother, had ensured that Harper was just as ‘multi-talented’ as every other Wallis, despite that Harper wasn’t an imp. There were no hybrids in the demon world. If two different breeds procreated, the child would be one or the other. Harper was the same breed as her absent mother.At the end of the book Harper breaks a 'mind' shield (Knox's power spilled through into her mind and gave her wings whatever push they had needed to finally surface and gets wings.) They were gossamer. A striking gold with strands of red and black; they were the same colors as the flames of hell.“But we will talk about it soon, Harper. I’m not going to walk away from you. And I think you’re coming to believe that now.” Satisfaction slid down his spine when she nodded in admission. “Good. Now relax and spread your legs. I want in you again.”Like she’d argue with that.Harper's first mentioning of Knox:‘And who was Knox? Well, Knox Thorne was not only the creator of the Underground, but a demon whose lair spanned most of Nevada and even much of California. The Prime was a ruthless billionaire who owned a chain of hotels, restaurants, security firms, bars, and casinos. That was what demons did: they hid in plain sight, mingled in with unsuspecting humans; often in positions that provided them with power, control, respect, and challenges. Many were entrepreneurs, politicians, stock brokers, CEOs, bankers, lawyers, police officers, journalists, chefs, surgeons, and people in the media. Harper herself co-owned a tattoo studio that had many oblivious human customers.Knox blended in with humans so easily that she doubted even other preternatural species would suspect him of being anything other than human. However, there wasn’t a demon in the world who hadn’t heard of Knox Thorne, since he was rumored to be the most powerful demon in existence – something apparently he’d never denied or confirmed.There were many other rumors about Knox: that he was dangerous, calculated, notoriously sexual, and someone who lived by his own rules on his own schedule. It was also believed that he had the ability to call on and control the flames of hell, which was extremely rare. It was also scary, because nothing was impervious to the flames of hell.’“I don’t believe I asked for a glass of your unimportant opinion.”The Truth Of Knox Thorne:— There was only one thing that could withstand the flames of hell…because it was the only thing that was born from the flames of hell;Archdemon.— Just as archangels were born in heaven and served God, archdemons were born in hell. But they weren’t there to serve Lucifer as many religions believed. They were there to serve hell itself. Born from the flames, their purpose was to command, control, and destroy.— Knox is so powerful that his powers is was straining to get free. And he was repressing it. Harper couldn’t understand how anyone could repress that level of power. But then, he was an archdemon.— ‘The flames calmed, slowly easing and lowering until all that was left was a figure of pure fire. Then the fire…it was like it peeled away from Knox’s flesh. His clothes were surprisingly still intact.He cricked his neck, his dark eyes glittering with danger. “I don’t just call on the flames of hell, Harper. I am the flames of hell.”’Considered too powerful to live on Earth after a rogue archdemon almost destroyed it, the decision had long ago been made to keep them in the very place they were born. Lucifer found a loophole, and here Knox is.— Archdemon is a breed that was malignant, callous, pitiless, and unforgiving.— Knox could destroy any demon all with minimal effort. But he had no desire to wipe out the demon population.— Every archdemon has wings: Knox's feathers were gold, red, and black…and on fire. They weren’t quite substantial; it was more like they were constructed of magma energy or something.“What bothers me is that health professionals give fancy names to conditions or learning difficulties that will irritate the patients; like OCD not being in alphabetical order, putting an ‘S’ in ‘lisp,’ and making dyslexia a word that no one can spell. It’s just mean.”Demons:— Demons were predominantly psychic creatures. They didn’t have soul mates, but they came in pairs. That meant they each had a predestined psychic mate, or ‘anchor’, who made them stronger and gave them the stability that prevented them from turning rogue.— By fusing their psyches, a powerful, unbreakable link formed between the demons. It wasn’t sexual or emotional, it existed on a psychic level. Demons were very protective of their anchors.— Demons didn’t have a global leader, they simply existed in lairs which were ruled by a Prime. The lairs weren’t organized into any kind of hierarchical structure. Demons only answered to their Primes. Isla Ross, however, had suggested electing one of the Primes – more specifically, her – to rule above all the lairs of the U.S. For a long time, no one had listened to her. But now some demons were supporting her idea, and she’d found a true voice.— Like a bird, sphinxes were winged, swift, graceful, and could be challenging to pin down. Like a lion, they were strong, fierce, brave, and would single-mindedly trail, stalk, and run down their prey. In short, there wasn’t a more elusive, daring, persistent demon than a sphinx.“I just think that if someone has a problem with me, well it’s their problem to deal with. Why should I feel bad about it? I’m not responsible for what other people do or don’t feel.”Other characters:I've put these in a spoilers tag simply because it's a long list; contains spoilers↦Ciaran Wallis, Harper's cousin and his twin sister,Khloë Wallis, Harper's other cousin. Both Imps. Her family, like all imp families, had a reputation for being what Harper's grandmother and Prime of her lair,Jolene Wallisliked to call ‘multi-talented.’ Humans would term them criminals. They tricked, they stole, they lied, they cheated, and they could get in and out of any place without being noticed…and they were completely casual about it.Beck, Jolene’s anchor.Martina Wallis, Harper's aunt.↦Levi, the reaper and Knox's sentinel.Tanner, a hellhound,Keenan, an incubus, andLarkina harpy, also sentiels of Knox.↦Mona, the harbinger thought herself untouchable because her anchor was a demon within Knox’s Force.↦Devon, a fellow lair-member to Harper and a hellcat.Raini, another member of Harper’s lair and a succubae. Both she and Harper were not only senior tattooists but owned the business together. Devon was an apprentice and also specialized in piercings while Khloë worked as their receptionist.↦Carla Hayden, Harper's mother. She has a mate and two sons now. The oldest,Roanis twenty-three. The other,Kellenis sixteen.↦Lucian, Haper's father. She is apparently the only living being that the imp demon had any true attachment to. Carla and Lucian are anchors. He never wanted the bond because anchors need to stay in contact; Lucian doesn’t like attachments. But he had no problem sleeping with Carla and setting her aside. The problem was that Carla and her demon also wanted Lucian as a mate, but neither he nor his demon wanted them. Is now a nomad; never settling.↦Malden Lester, one of the Primes and had an alliance, though it was tenuous at best, with Jolene.↦Raul Harlan, one of the Primes.Tanya, his anchor.↦Kendra Watson, a breed of demon known as a ‘nightmare.’ There was only one thing Knox would find if he invaded her mind: his worst nightmare. Kendra is Knox ex-bed-buddy.Turns out Kendra wasn't Kendra, but an impostor by the name of Jeanna, who has the gift of seduction. She can also induce fear. She dies at Harper's hand at the end of the book. The real Kendra though, is Harper's half sister but they have never met.↦Lucifer ‘Lou’, the devil. According to Knox he is bbrasive, blunt, and offensive, he was a social nightmare. He was also psychotic and came with a child-like sense of entitlement, a love of sarcasm, and a propensity to constantly switch from one emotional state to another. Harper describes him as ‘a psychopathic child with bipolar and OCD’.↦Isla Ross, a prime and dead set on Knox being her anchor. She is a banshee…to an extent. A vampire tried to change her. She was strong enough to survive a transition that has killed many other demons, and so she is a blend of the two species. This makes the possibility that she's even invincible to most demons…except for Knox.Her vampiric gift; she can steal some of a person’s power through their blood. It’ll be hours before they get it back. She dies at the end of the book by Knox's hand.Harper was also a person who preferred to avoid complications. Like parking tickets, speed restrictions, and red lights – which was why she no longer had a driver’s license.Quick basic facts:Genre: - (Adult) Paranormal Romance.Series: - Series, Book One.Love triangle?-No.Cheating?-No.HEA?-Kinda.Favorite character?- Knox Thorne.Would I read more by this author/or of series?- Yes.Would I recommend this book/series?- Yes.Will I read this again in the future?- Probably..New Rating- 3 (this is so sad; Knox saved it...somewhat) stars.Second re-read: 06.08.2016God, I cannot get enough of this book! Seriously! L O V E it! Want to read it again already. I cannot wait for book #2!! Same rating as the first.How can you still be hard?”Knox ever so slowly withdrew, causing her pussy to close around his cock and try to suck him back in. “Don’t worry, baby, I’m not done yet.” He drove deep with a grunt. “This time, scream my name for me.”Re-read: 03.10.2015I just love this book! I cannot get enough of Knox! He is...AMAZING! I still cannot believe that I just read it a couple of months ago...but it is still one of my favorite books so far! I just know that I'll re-read it yet again soon. I mean hello, it's Knox! Same rating as the first.“No one can be firmly marked anything, baby. No one’s all good, and no one’s all bad.”First read review: 10.07.2015"You’re a very strong personality, Harper. You would only be attracted to someone who’s either stronger or equally strong.” It pissed her off that he’d read her so easily.“And you think you’re stronger, don’t you?”“What I think is that when I’m deep inside you, neither of us will care.”Fucking amazing! Suzanne Wright knows how to write a story, that's for sure. She's brilliant! I love this book, the story, the characters..EVERYTHING! Suzanne has written one of my favorite books ever, Feral Sins (I didn't like #2 in the series though, so I stopped there, though I'm still waiting for more of Trey!) and Deep In Your Veins series is awesome! (though only Sam and Jared's story.. I haven't read the others and I won't either.) So I must admit that I was a little skeptical to read 'Burn' because how can that one be better than what she already had written so far? Well boy was I wrong! And fuck if I ain't glad for that!“I don’t believe I asked for a glass of your unimportant opinion.”Though 'Burn' still doesn't beat 'Feral Sins' is was pretty close.. I adore the world, which is the same world as Deep In Your Veins. I cannot remember meeting any of the characters from 'Burn' in 'DIYV' but it's supposed to have some crossover characters.. Perhaps some re-reading is due? :P“I just think that if someone has a problem with me, well it’s their problem to deal with. Why should I feel bad about it? I’m not responsible for what other people do or don’t feel.”The story was pretty fucking awesome! If you know me then you know I'm a sucker for bad-boys, alpha males who's dominating and fucking powerful, and shit Knox Thorne did not disappoint! He's what I would call anti-hero. He's badass, manipulating, powerful, bastard, rich, dominating, alpha male, super possessive, makes your pants socking wet and fucking horny.“Scare you?” (....) “Baby, I’d never do that. But you have to understand that the answers you want to the many questions in your pretty little head will very often not be what you want to hear. They might shock you, they might disgust you, and they might even frighten you. I don’t want to scare you, but I won’t lie to you. Don’t ask for the truth unless you can deal with it.”I have to admit that he is now one of my favorite alpha males. He's right up there with Ryder from 'The Fae Chronicles', Trey from 'Feral Sins', Ethan from 'Chicagoland Vampires', Curran from 'Kate Daniels', Travis from 'Beautiful', Liam from Ruthless People, Braxton from Supernatural Prison... I must say, I think he even comes on third place after Ryder (#1) and Trey (#2).. And that is saying something!“Have you told her what you are yet?”“Not yet.” His hesitation was clear in his tone.“Harper doesn’t scare easily.”“No, she doesn’t. But my kind aren’t supposed to walk the Earth. You know what they say – what’s born in hell should stay in hell.” Contrary to what humans believed, there were much worse things in hell than Lucifer.Yes, there is no denying that Knox reminds me of Ryder and Trey. He's like their kid or something xp He's alike Ryder with being something mysterious, way too powerful, with the ability to kill pretty much anyone and everything. AND he has the ability to seduce without touching just like Ryder (though not perfectly the same) and they both are incredibly possessive and protective. With Trey is the feral streak they both have, again with being powerful, alpha male. They all have in common where feelings are concerned.. And I didn't mind at all! For one guy to have ALL that I love in two of my favorite characters are just PERFECT!“I miss you, all right.”“You should. I’m fucking awesome.”Now to Harper Wallis.. I L O V E her! She too reminds me of characters from TFC and FS. She's so much alike Syn and Taryn with the attitude, being strong and independent, sarcastic and sassy, loyal and incredible. Harper and Knox together is incredible. They are perfect for each other. I'm must say I'm jealous of Harper.. I really want Knox, but if I can't have him, Harper is acceptable ;)) heheYou’reamotherfuckingcocksuckingpsychopathicsonofabitch!Lol you could say 'Burn' is: The Fae Chronicles meets Feral Sins, which of course for me it means amazing, brilliant, perfection and just my type! I'm a 100% sure that I will re-read this in the future many times. Hell, I even want to re-read it now and I just finished the book! I seriously hope that we will get more of Harper and Knox, and not just one book like we did Trey and Taryn.. Webetterget more of them both :P!“Why are you still smiling? You’re supposed to fear my mighty wrath.”His shoulders shook with silent laughter. “In case you can’t tell, I’m petrified.”“You will be if my mighty wrath is ever unleashed. Stop laughing!”The only thing I wish we got more of was more action. I wish more would happen, though I'm hoping that there will be a book two where we get even more, and that we geta little Knox running around...and that we didn't get to know how old they were... Other than that, the book was perfect and is one of my favorites! Thank you SO SO much, Hana for recommending this one to me! I'm sure I would have found it sooner or later but, you recommending it to me meant I found it earlier :DAnd I just found out that Knox and Harper will be getting another book!! YAY!!!"Harper & Knox will get another book, their story isn't finished yet." - Suzanne WrightRecommended to everyone who loves a dominating male, a sassy heroine and sexy hot scenes ;)) Specially to fans of The Fae Chronicles, Feral Sins...ect.Rate: 4.5-5/4 stars.