We may have been brought together because of a stupid ass game. Or because we were both screwed up, or needed a change, but we got somewhere important and that’s the only thing that counts.REACTION AFTER READING THE BOOKThis book just made me so happy. It dealt with so much more than just the relationship of the characters. It dealt with life, pain, moving on and most especially love.THE GISTCheyenne was so not expecting to see her boyfriend of two years to be fooling around with some other girl behind her back. To make things worse, that wasn’t the first time it happened. Chey was willing to do whatever it takes to make sure Gregory knows that he made a big mistake cheating on her. And whatever it takes includes her paying for someone to pretend as her boyfriend to make her ex jealous as hell.Colt may seem like he doesn’t have a problem in the world but really he does. His mother is sick and may be dying any time soon and there was nothing he could do about it. So when Chey proposed the deal, he accepts it.Chey and Colt have their own struggles. They had their own ways of dealing with the hurt and pain. But what they both didn’t expect was the game they started for the wrong reasons ended up something that they both needed.FIRST IMPRESSIONMy first impression of the book was not really that good. I mean the synopsis was good but the cover just didn’t do well with me. And to make matters worse, as I was reading the book I found out that Colt don’t look anything like that guy on the cover. That guy looked more like Gregory and I hate that guy’s guts to hell! Colt’s tattoos were missing and he seemed very happy wherein the Colt that I knew from the book was not so much until the later part of the book. It didn’t make a good impression but it made a LASTING impression on me. This book was AWESOME!CHARACTERSCHEYENNEThis girl was easy to love. I mean seriously. She’s been through a lot growing up. Her thinking all the time that her mom didn’t love her, that was why she left but all the while there was something else that happened. I mean she may have not been deprived of material stuff but emotionally she lacked a lot. She wanted to always be in control so that people around couldn’t hurt her like what her mom did. The only thing I didn’t agree on with her was the fact that she tried to shut herself out from the people who really cared about her like her aunt and uncle. Another thing would be how she thinks getting revenge and paying someone to help her with her dirty work will solve anything. But other than that I loved Chey. She was a great character to me. Damaged yet she tried to fix herself up and help Colt in the process too.COLTONI just love thatfuckingname. It sounds so sexy. Colt. Colton. Sounds so masculine and firm and geezz my imagination is going wild. Anyways, Colt like Chey was very easy to love. His situation wasn’t though. It was hard to be in the position wherein you are caught between doing what you want and doing what your dying mother asks of you and doing what everything you can to make sure she lives. I have never been in that kind of situation but I am pretty sure it was hard. Colt was once again, one of my tattooed book boyfriends. He wasn’t perfect. He agreed to be a hired boyfriend to make payments for his mom’s needs. That is saying something about him. He’ll do anything for the people he loves and cares about which also means Chey is one LUCKY woman.ADRIANI like this guy. Reading about him here, he seems to be the type that was high all the time but could still manage to be a friend when you need him the most. And I am happy to hear that this guy will also get his own story told, so I am so excited to read all about Adrian. I’m sure I’ll enjoy him as much as I enjoyed reading about Chey and Colt.CHEY + COLT = CONSTRUCTIVE LOVEIt’s not every day that you meet that person who will make a difference in your life. Chey and Colt didn’t expect that they will fall for each other. They weren’t expecting that they were each other’s missing pieces and that they will build each other up. Chey and Colt were both damaged characters but they healed each other. They made each other better and I think that is what I loved the most about this book. I loved how it showed that love sometimes does move in mysterious ways. Who would have thought Chey and Colt will fall in love with each other? Who would have thought that they were each other’s missing puzzle pieces?He doesn’t have to say with what. I know he means his mom. That’s what we have – we’re both damaged with baggage and somehow it works. I never thought something like this would work for me.QUOTABLE QUOTES"He loves you," she adds. "And I love you. You're everything I could have hoped for, for him.""I thought this was a game," I reminded him."Not anymore and you know it. Everything else in my life is all f*cked up. This is the only thing that's real."?"I'm fucking good at this boyfriend shit. Who would have thought?"”You’re fucking cocky is what you are.”“You have the worst mouth.”“I thought we decided women like my mouth. You like my mouth don’t you?””It’s not because of how I feel right now or how well we move together. It’s about him. Us. I know that it’s no longer just an empty thought. It’s the truth.I’m falling for Colt.”HIGHLIGHTS> Alternating POVs is yet again another plus for me. The effect of the story would not be as full blown if it weren’t for that type of writing. We get to see both sides of the story. We get to see what Colt and Chey are experiencing and it gets you to relate with the characters more.> It was not all fun and games. I liked how balanced everything was. There was just the right amount of humour, life issues and sexy time. Hahaha. Yeah I loved reading about the steamy scenes. Hahaha.> The emotions of the characters felt so real.> Chemistry between the characters was smoking!> I liked the secondary characters: Adrian, Colt’s mom, Chey’s aunt and uncle and yeah eventhe assholeGregory and the Redhead.FINAL WORDSI wasn’t really expecting much when I picked up this book for the buddy reads. I really wasn’t because honestly, the cover wasn’t doing much justice to this book.I am so happy I picked up this book and read it. The story was beautiful. It wasn’t perfect but it was so good that it actually made me cry towards the end. I don’t know what it is with authors and their intent to always make the readers cry towards the end. Can’t they put it on the early part of the book or the middle? Jeez! But anyway, I am so not complaining. I loved having a good cry over a good book.I’d like to emphasize again how good this book is. I loved the story, the characters, the pacing and the ending. Damn! I loved that ending. Hahaha.This will definitely not be my last Nyrae Dawn book. I am so going to hunt all of your books down and devour it like this one.Will I recommend it?Highly!"I’m right where I belong and where she wanted me to be. Where I want to be... with you.”