It's LIVE! *Amazon US*Amazon UK*Consolationis emotional, brilliant and LOVELY and WOW. I really, REALLY loved this story of fear, loss, and hope. It’s about facing the life that’s left; the realities of what was and what could be if you open your heart and your soul. It deals with the realities of losing someone. Grief is explored showcasing the way other people behave towards the bereaved, the expectations of feelings and actions and the fact that there's no written law detailing how one should behave in such devastating situations as faced by our heroine.By 12% I found myself completely invested in the story. I felt the prose deeply and my eyes watered from experiencing the heavy heart of the heroine.This book is so good.The angst level is set to perfection.The Protagonists:Natalie married her childhood sweetheart, Aaron, her first love and was content with her life, despite the dangers of her husband’s job.One day in the blink of an eye, everything changed, she lost him.Liam Dempsey, Aaron’s best friend is noble, honest, hot, kind, reliable, HOT, sexy, sensual, and charming and, did I mention HOT?! He made a promise to look out for Natalie and is the one person to make her smile again, despite the dangers he himself comes with.I love their easy friendship, the kind that comes from knowing someone over a period of years, their repartee and interaction is wonderful. I spent a lot of time smiling which is in direct contrast to the angst ridden situations, providing light and shade and adding an extra layer of feelings and beauty to the mix. The way their friendship develops throughout is simply put...beautifully divine.The juxtaposition between reminiscing about the past and the slow realization and acceptance of feelings for someone else is so very moving.Learning how to move on; how to live again.There’s more to this story than at first appears, things aren’t always what they seem.Writing with a complete sense of authenticity is so important to me, especially in terms of character motivation, actions, inner thoughts and dialogue and this author achieves this in dramatic proportion. I’m an emotional reader; I totally put myself in the heroine’s shoes, empathizing with them, feeling their hurt, their angst, thinking how I’d feel in their situation. This writing contains the most lovely and exquisite inner conflict. I experienced so much pleasure reading this story.To sum up my feelings,Consolationmade me smile, swoon and cry in equal heart warming measure. And the ENDING... it completely blew me away; I saw it only moments before, not a millisecond sooner. The whole tale is just perfectly executed and I'm anticipating the prospect of the second and final part of this story with baited breath. What. Will. Happen?**NoteConsolation is the first part in a two part series.The second partConvictionis due for release on 27th May 2015http://amzn.com/B00U48LBZQ**Excerpt 1:Aarabelle sits in her highchair as I feed her dinner. She’s growing so fast. Already she’s eating cereal and a little baby food. Soon she’ll be crawling and I have no one to celebrate with. Her father will never see these milestones and it breaks me apart.“You should really lock the door,” Liam huffs as he throws his coat over the chair.“But then I’d have to get up to let you in,” I state matter-of-factly and go back to feeding the baby, trying to put aside my worries. The fact is…this is reality. I have to deal with it.“Uh huh. Hey, Pumpkin,” his eyes alight as he crouches down by Aara. It’s adorable hearing grown men use a baby voice. It gets a little softer and higher pitched.The corners of her mouth lift and she throws her arms in the air when he gets close. My heart sputters seeing how happy she gets seeing him. Liam kisses her head and she giggles.“At least someone is happy to see me,” he says playfully.“I’d be happy if you brought me a present,” I joke.He laughs and goes into the pocket of his coat. “Just so happens I did, but since that’s the only way you’ll be nice, I’ll hold on to this until you’ve earned it.”Practically leaping out of my chair, I rush over. “What is it?” I try to peer around his back as he holds the mystery item.Liam’s lips curl as he sees how much I want this. I don’t even know what it is. Jeez, I’m an idiot. “Nope. We eat first, then maybe you’ll get it.”“Watch, it’s a freaking Pez dispenser or something stupid.”“Guess you’ll have to be nice to find out.” He shoves the item into his back pocket and I fight the urge to reach and get it. “How was work?”We spend the next thirty minutes going over my day and Jackson’s return. Liam never mentioned that they spoke, but he’s surprised to hear he’s in Virginia. After we finish the pizza, Liam somehow convinces me we should watch a movie. I get Aarabelle to bed and come down to find him sprawled out on the couch.“By all means, make yourself comfortable.”Liam pulls his beanie higher on his forehead and his eyes glimmer with amusement. He sits up and puts the TV on. “I picked the movie.”“What?” I ask with mock incredulity. “It’s my house. Why do you get to pick the movie?”“Ummm, I’m the guest.” He shrugs as if this should be an obvious answer.I groan and lean back. “What crappy, shoot-‘em-up movie do I have to endure?”“You’ll see. It’s a classic.”Advanced copy received from the author, via TRSoR, in exchange for an honest review.