Corrupt - 2.5 starsHideaway - 2.5 starsKill Swith - currently readingNightfall - tbr2.5 i-made-it ⭐️sREALLY REALLY REAAAALLY LONG Rant AlertBefore we start this thing, I have to say this.I love PD. She wrote some of my all time favorite books (Taylor Marek, I’d let you be the senator of my state every day and twice on Sunday) and she is, without a doubt, an amazing writer.Okay, now that that is out of the way,I hate this.First of all, I re-read this just so I can rant about it because apparently GR is my therapy and y’all are involuntary therapists, deal with it (you bet I’m patting my own back for my dedication and treating myself to that overpriced pair of pants I swore I wasn’t buying)Anyway, I was excited because I’d get to hate on Rika (one of my favorite pastimes because I’m pathetic okay) but am now deeplyoffendedbecause my hate for her grew with the series. It’s hard to read a book with a character you hate because if this was my first time, I would’ve just rolled my eyes at her but I swear this fictional character’s very existence is bothersome to my very immature and very petty self. I’m royally pissed that I only get to judge her (in this review) based on this book, because of my upstanding morals (LOL JK that well is drier than me reading the horrible threesome)Now, let’s talk aboutRika Faneand all the ways she’sthe perfect prototypeand the rest of us just really messed up the details.She starts out as a good girl, innocent and sweet, a dutiful daughter, a poor rich girl that has everything handed to her except what she really wants (Michael, we’ll get to him later) and that just wants to fly away from the nest and see what she’s made of (a combination of perfect atoms, duh)She’s also very intelligent, and calls out a professor that has probably been teaching since before she was born in a packed auditorium. He was so flustered and gobsmacked by her flawless logic that he just couldn’t answer. Better yet, Damon, who hates her guts, was speechless in the face of her sheer brilliance.She’s so pure and whatever that she frowns upon prostitution and openly judges a prostitute named Alex. Okay Rika, you’re sheltered and innocent and you’ll grow up over time, right?WrongBecause BAM! Turns out Rika also moonlights as a sex phone worker. Okay, that’s not true (you’re no fun) but seriously some of the things she said.“And his dick is built for my ass. When he slides it in, he owns me.”And have I mentioned she’s so freaking beautiful??? Your eyes will legit hurt if you look at her for more than 3 seconds.“Will leaned his elbows on the table, watching her as well, and I didn’t spare a glance at Kai to see if he was staring. I knew he was.Who wouldn’t?”Just when you think she can’t surprise you anymore, it turns out she’s a freaking ninja too.And a dick whisperer. Yes, she fixes broken dicks. She’s that good and selfless. Us, regular females should just be ashamed and quit men altogether, I’m telling you.Even Damon, the villain, is waxing poetics about her looks. (Not even going to open that can of worms right now, gotta leave something for later butewwww)She is the CEO of Body Betraying Syndrome Inc. Catch her dropping her panties whenever Michael looks her way, but she’scooler than youbecause she’s owning it.“I don’t forgive you for what you’ve done to me,” she whispered, her voice still shaking from the orgasm. “But you’re right. I don’t think I can say no to you.”You can kidnap her mother, burn down her house, steal all her money and threaten her physically. That’s all cool. The one thing she wouldneverforgive you for is if you don’t take her out on a date!!“My first night at Delcour, she was in a dress, you were in a suit, and you both had just gotten back here from wherever you were at. You haven’t taken me anywhere.”How dare you Michael??? She has onlyonedeal breaker and you had to do it??Lastly, she’s wiser than you when you were 13.“Well, it’s like you’re saving your energy for something. Holding back,” she says, nestling into me and getting comfortable. “But it doesn’t make any sense. Life is one-way, and there is no return trip. What are you waiting for?”Now let’s get on toMichael Crist.I have a picture of him.Oh wait, it doesn’t show? Let’s try again.Still nothing??? I guess he just blends so well….“What do you see in me that’s so fucking fascinating?”That is the one million dollar question, tbh.He had 0 personality. I don’t know if PD was trying too hard to make the others intriguing that she failed to develop Michael enough or what, but he was just so…meh.Michael, honey,In fact,“You’re pretty fucking sick, aren’t you?” he teased.“Just like me,” he whispered.”Bitch, shut up. Rika, for all her flaws, has personality. You have none. Go back to your drywall existence, please and thank you.The Threesome(yes it deserves a full section because I’m pretty sure it’s one of the reasons I’m half blind)Hello, police of wherever PD lived when I first read thisSo basically, prison broke Kai’s dick, butsupermanRika is there to save the day, of course.Keep in mind that only like a few pages earlier, Michael was like“If you ever let that happen, I will make you sorry.”And then outta nowhere Kai is there like“Tell her you love her,” a deep voice echoed.At this point, it is my belief that Kai was inserted into the scene just to be Rika’s hype man (as if she needed one uggghh). Then Pd took a coffee break in the middle of the scene and something hard hit her on her lovely-incredible-writer-that-I-love head.Result :First of all, Kai’s goes from “This hurt” when she touches his freaking chest to “I’m gonna lick you so good baby” in like 0.2 seconds.Then he asked Michael to “open her for him” LOLIn the end he “thanks her” andOf course all this happened becauseI wanted him and me and Michael and making something good out of the last three years, and I wanted him to know he wasn’t alone.Things I liked(yes they exist LOL)“Well, she’s not really his type, is she?”We stopped as we neared the gazebo, and I turned my head, seeing Michael’s piercing eyes lock with mine."We want what we want,” he explained, the weight of his soft words meaning more than I think he intended."I liked this, I felt it.“Drowning Pool, Three Days Grace, Five Finger Death Punch,” I continued, “Thousand Foot Krutch, 10 Years, Nothing More, Breaking Benjamin, Papa Roach, Bush…” I paused, exhaling nice and slow despite the way my heart drummed. “Chevelle, Skillet, Garbage, Korn, Trivium, In This Moment…” I drifted off, peace settling over me as I looked up at him. “You’re in everything.”This whole scene is approved by all the known cuteness authorities.The cave scene, that started out well and I actually felt some of their chemistry. Maybe it was because I read it on my lunch hour in a room of 200 people and felt scandalously naughty? Or maybe it really was good. I’ll never know because I was interrupted and only resumed when I was back at my desk (working really hard, as you can see) and my eyes landed on the wordnuband BAM! scene ruined because I hate that word.Some scenes I couldn’t help but comment on--“Why are we doing this?” Will mocked in my voice.And then they all joined in.“Why are we doing this?”“Why are we doing this?”What went through my mind--“Michael challenged me, and I met him, pushing back the whole time.”If by pushing back you mean your legs, than sure.--Michael arriving at the grand finale knowing full well that the villains are waiting for him. The observation skills on this guy.”Something was wrong.”--And why are all of them wearing suits and tiesall the damn time??? Michael, you’re a basketball player and the rest, you just got out of prison soIf you made it this far, thank you for coming to my ted talk and I promise to shoulder at least 30% of your therapy bills.Because honestlyFuck, this felt good.On to the next one, because Rika is about to get bitch slapped andI AM HERE FOR IT.