Posted at Yummy Men & Kick Ass ChicksBefore I begin this review, I have one important thing to say about this book. Darker After Midnight is the tenth installment in Lara Adrian’s Midnight Breed series and HOLY SH*T THIS BOOK IS…OMG JUST…WOW!Essentially, this book is about Chase and Tavia and how they find their HEA. But really, it’s so much more. So much happens it’s insane! I have to admit that when I first met Chase in book three, I didn’t feel much for him. Yes, I felt bad for him and his situation. But as a character, he was just there. Then he joined the Order and he started getting interesting. Then he started getting on my nerves. Never to the point where I wanted to smack him around, but I may have wanted to shake him a little to see what was going on in that head of his. Then the end of book nine happened and I thought he was the bravest and stupidest vampire on the planet. I found what he did to be such an honorable thing to do. It’s too bad he was walking into certain death. But as I’m getting ready to wave goodbye to Chase forever, I remembered that book ten was to be Chase’s book and he most certainly wasn’t headed for certain death because otherwise that would make book ten the shortest book ever. So I changed it in my head: We were not witnessing Chase’s demise at the end of book nine – we were witnessing his greatness. He is still dealing with his issues in Darker After Midnight but his humanity, if you will, is a strong focus too. I liked him quite a bit in this book and had no feelings of wanting to hurt him. *g*Tavia is a very good match for Chase. I really liked her character but what I liked most was what Lara ended up doing to/with her. Holy whoa I did not see that coming!!! I mean…yeah. I can’t wait to see what loyal readers of this series think of Tavia at the end of the book. I found it all very fitting to what has been going on in these past few books.We see quite a bit of the other members of the Order but we mostly see Lucan and Gabrielle. I found it was great how we see the aftermath of his struggle with Bloodlust and his struggle with becoming the true leader he was always meant to me. If I weren’t sitting in the middle of my daughter’s dance school when I read the end of this book, I would have stood up and cheered for Lucan in the epilogue.I was a little disappointed after reading the last book that Jenna and her ‘condition’ weren’t mentioned more but I did not feel that way this time around. Jenna is very much in the picture and much is explained. We also discover a theory about where Breedmates originated! Yeah…I know! Now you know what I mean when I say tons happens in this book!I have a huge crush on Gideon. I just wanted to throw that out there.Now let’s talk about the man we all want to punch in the face…and kick in other more painful regions… Dragos. I am about done with him. He wants vampires to take over the world and humans to be a snack. Yeah…he’s one of those guys. In each book, the Order knocks him down a little bit at a time. Starting this book, I was about ready for Dragos to be really hurt this time. I wanted his operation to be completely disbanded and he himself to die a slow and painful death. Or a fast and painful death. Or even a fast and painless death. I’m easy. I just wanted it to happen. Of course, I won’t tell you what happened with Dragos – you’ll just have to read the book to find out. But I am satisfied with where Dragos is headed at the end of this book.One more little tidbit about Dragos in Darker After Midnight… The ‘big’ part of his plan is revealed and holy jumpin’ I was not expecting him to go there. And when he went there, it was sad and shocking and another moment in the book that had me lose all words other than ‘whoa’.Oh, and before I forget, no this is not a stand-alone book. You would still enjoy it if you just jumped in and read this one but you wouldn’t have the same reaction as I did to the book because you would be missing the character build-up and the whole ‘Dragos is a super bastard’ aspect of the story also builds over a few books.Lara’s Midnight Breed series is a solid series. I have never rated a book under 4 stars. The writing is good, the characters are very well developed and the premise (even though it’s vampires in hiding) is unique. I’m always impressed when I finish a Midnight Breed, but I have to say Darker After Midnight blew me away. I could not sit still during the last few chapters. I held my breath and rooted for the heroes and thought “THIS is how a long-running paranormal romance series should make you feel”. Lara got it just right with this tenth installment. I LOVE where the story ended up and I love where it seems to be headed. Fans of this series will have to agree with me that Darker After Midnight is the best book yet.