4 StarsSo I'd been knocked up by a rock star. Big deal.Nothing can ruin a dinner party quicker than a random pregnancy announcement...especially when it's yours...and the guy that knocked you up is the sexy bearded bassist for a rock band that also happens to be a commitment phobe. Oh and said pregnancy is the result of one stolen night together that really wasn't supposed to happen and said bassist hasn't talked to you since. Suffice it to say that Lizzy Rollins is having one hell of a week.Also, wow, if this was the result of having great sex then I was so never going there again. Not even for mediocre sex. Nothing. I might even rule out masturbation, just in case. You couldn't be too careful. Random attack sperm could be anywhere, just waiting to get a girl in trouble.Got your attention now, don't I? Good :)I've been a huge fan of this series since the very first book. Whenever I need a feel good, lighthearted, sexy and laugh out loud rockstar romance, this has been my go-to. Every book has been unique in it's own right, and I just knew that Ben's story was going to be a good one ever since we first met him inLick. If you've read Lick, you don't get the best impression of him there. I gotta warn you, he will have even bigger dick moments in this book. But boy oh boy you will also find yourself falling hard for the bearded sex machine right along Lizzy.Dreamy dark eyes pinned me in place, owning me. He licked his lips. Every time he did that my hormones erupted into the song of joy, a full orchestra plus heavenly choir accompanying. The whole shebang. It was ridiculous.While the situation in this book and the back and forth between Lizzy and Ben may have driven me crazy in any other book, the saving grace here is the laugh out loud humor. I couldn't get enough of Lizzy's inner monologue. Between Mal's random appearances and the rest of the Stage Dive crew, it was non-stop fun. Ultimately I have to say it was really Lizzy that stole the show here though.Goodness, did he look angry. Between the beard and the expression on his face, he looked downright barbaric. He might as well be dressed in furs and carrying a spear, presenting me with the boar he'd caught for dinner. Ah, good old-fashioned Stone Age romance.Lizzy is Anne's younger sister, and ever since she met Ben through her relationship with Mal, Lizzy has been enraptured with him. But Ben also knows that Lizzy is hands off for him. Not only did he get warned off by Mal, he's not the relationship type and knows he can't give her what she wants. But that doesn't stop Lizzy's feelings or her pursuing of him. What begins as innocent texting soon begins to turn into something much more. Until one night where they both throw caution to the wind and finally give into the inevitable.Unfortunately for Lizzy, Ben seems to have some super sperm. So what should have been one night comes with much bigger repercussions. Now they're forced to deal with a pregnancy, a rock star that never sees himself getting married, raging pregnancy hormones, and did I mention the raging pregnancy hormones?A wounded heart was apparently no competition for an overeager vagina. The urge for sperm made no sense. I already had a baby on board. My tart, attention-seeking nipples stood out loud and proud beneath my top, just begging for his lips. The situation between my legs wasn't any better.I can't tell you how much I loved the banter between Lizzy and pretty much every other character including Ben. Even though I did find myself wanting to reach through my kindle and beat the neanderthal with a blunt object at times, Lizzy's inner thoughts really lightened that up. The chemistry between her and Ben was electric. I couldn't get enough of it.Without comment he sat up, grabbing the back of his button-down shirt and pulling it over his head. His chest was so pretty. So hard and big and stuff, it made my IQ drop to my shoe size. Everything about him did. The bearded sex machine turned me into a stuttering fool. Sad but true.This was such a bittersweet book for me to read because as much as I enjoyed it, I was so sad to see it come to an end. I really hope that Kylie will give us a spin-off and hopefully we won't be seeing the last of Vaughn.This was a sexy, laugh-out-loud, and entertaining as all get out romance. I definitely recommend it for all fans of rockstar romance.If you loved the rest of this series, than you are definitely going to love this one. I'd highly recommend reading the series in order to truly appreciate all the characters and really enjoy it, though you could read it as a standalone.ARC courtesy of publisher in exchange for an honest reviewFor more reviews visit