This book had been recommended to me ever since I joined Goodreads, and by so many people that I have lost count. When it finally arrived in the mail about a week ago, I pounced on it like a tiger and started jumping up and down in excitement. And if it hadn't been for all the furniture, I might even have twirled... ;) Hahaha just kidding, I don't *ahem* twirl.So, with exceedingly high expectations after having heardEdenbrookepraised to the skies for so long, I plunged in it wholeheartedly, prepared to be utterly delighted and swept off my feet and...*drumroll*... I WAS!!!To all the people who predicted I would loveEdenbrooke: You were right. SO right!When a book succeeds in making me feel happy, contended, sad, infuriated, sympathizing, breathless and leaves me turning the last page with a dreamy sigh and a silly lovesick expression, well yeah, I know that I've been reading an amazing book, and it's getting a five star rating.Edenbrookeis first and foremost a love story. It's basically a Regency fairy-tale. It's cliché and there are many far-fetched and implausible situations, which I admit grated on my nerves a little, and probably would have ruined the book for me if the romance hadn't made up for it. Because in the end, I decided that this book was supposed to be enjoyed for the romance, and read for fun, just like any other fairy-tale that has a few aspects that seem impossible or don't make perfect sense. This novel was not a comedy of manners or a romp, it was a love story. A beautiful, heart-wrenching, heart-warming and amazing love story, and I am completely in love with it.The setting, as Marianne would say, feels like paradise. Edenbrooke is a grand, magnificent home, resplendent with elegance and luxury. The extensive grounds are just as exquisite in their natural beauty and I'd give a fortune to go on vacation at a place like that. Coming straight from Bath, Marianne is absolutely delighted with the place and plans on making the most out of her visit by exploring the orchard, riding, painting the scenery and twirling around.At seventeen, Marianne Daventry is a young, innocent girl who has trouble fitting in and behaving like an elegant lady. She was a delightful heroine and I could relate to her in many ways. I liked that she was outspoken and determined one moment, and shy and blushing the next. She was able to pretend she was a milkmaid and sing a silly song in front of a stranger at in inn without the least embarrassment, but have a man tell her she's looking beautiful and suddenly she loses all her wits and that man is anarrogant, odious flirt!Her inability to take any compliments, especially from Philip, was quite irritating, but it was understandable at the same time because she hasn't really had any experience and is not generally disposed to flirt. So every time Philip said something nice to her, or started teasing her (which he did a lot and it was adorable), she immediately felt mortified and was exasperated that he flirted so much.Philip and Marianne become quick friends and have so many wonderful scenes in the first half of the book before Cecily enters the picture. They ride together, laugh together, confide in each other, explore the house, and they just have such an amazing time and you can really feel it and it is just soooo romantic!! Philip is so obviously madly in love with her, but she remains totally oblivious to it even though she's very much aware of him too.Ok, so now I just need to pause this a little bit and talk about Philip for a second here (come on, you all knew this was coming! :P). Where can I meet him please?!?! (Please don't answer Edenbrooke or I will cry!)I need that man in my life. Seriously. If we were allowed to marry anyone from literature, he would be my husband. I know that I gush about *almost* every hero I encounter in my historical romances, but Philip Wyndham is simply perfection itself and I'm madly in love with him, and I know that I am clearly crazy, but goodness he was soswoony!! (If ever a hero deserved the word, it is him!) Why do authors create such amazingly impossible dreamy men?! What I am supposed to do now??! Start shopping for cats, I think. ;)No but, seriously, even if for some deranged reason Philip doesn't make you swoon, surely their romance or his estate will! There is not an extravagant amount of description inEdenbrooke, but the house and grounds are detailed just enough to make you want to pack your bags and move there. And the romance, dear heavens, there is a scene where Marianne sleeps on Philip's jacket in the orchard (and he's lying down close to her), a breathtaking dance scene, another breathtaking one in the stables, one in library, THE LIST GOES ON! And then there is The. Kiss. which nearly made me lose my head, and I think I just sat staring at nothing for a few moments after re-reading it fifty times.Oooh, and did I mention the love-letter writing lesson Philip gives Marianne? Hottest thing ever. Gentlemen, please take notes. :)"To my unsuspecting love.When I look into your eyes, I lose all sense of time and place. Reason robbed, clear thought erased, I am lost in the paradise I find within your gaze. I long to touch your blushing cheek, to whisper in your ear how I adore you, how I have lost my heart to you, how I cannot bear the thought of living without you. To be so near you without touching you is agony. Your blindness to my feelings is a daily torment, and I feel driven to the edge of madness by my love for you. Where is your compassion when I need it the most? Open your eyes, love, and see what is right before you; that I am not merely a friend, but a man deeply, desperately, in love with you.Longing for you."Swooniest thing since Captain Wentworth's letter in Austen'sPersuasion.If all this hasn't convinced you, I don't know what will, but I sincerely hope every romantic out there picks up this book and enjoys the rare treat it is, because you really don't know what you're missing. Doesn't matter if you're not normally into Regency or historical romance. Read it anyways. :D :DWHERE IS BLACKMOORE WHEN I NEED IT?!?!?!Buddy read with Becca! :)