“You own me, Eva. Wherever I am, whatever I’m doing, I belong to you.”Entwined With You was everything I could have wanted! I was thrilled with the story, happy with the ending and now am excited for the next books!I LOVED IT!!! 5++ STARS!Since this is book #3 in the series, I am not going to talk about the plot at all here. This is not a standalone and should only be read after bothBared to YouandReflected in You.First you can all rest easy because there is NO RELATIONSHIP CLIFFHANGER!!! In fact, of all the three books so far, I’d say this one had the most resolved ending of all. It ended at a point where Gideon and Eva were together and happy. Yes, there were still many unanswered questions for future books (mostly regarding external plot lines and milestones that Gideon and Eva still have to cross) but there was no relationship cliffhanger!There was also real no stupidity and no cheating throughout the book. Yes, the characters made mistakes, but they’re only human. I ‘understood’ everything that both Gideon and Eva did throughout the book. I understood why they messed up and I respected them for trying to fix their mistakes.There was a lot of smokin’ hot sex (and I mean H.O.T.) but it didn’t overpower the actual work they put into the relationship. I loved that they didn’t use sex as a distraction for working out their issues. They’d always had intense chemistry and sexual attraction but they were also actively focused just as much on working on the rest of their relationship as well which made them functional as a couple both inside and outside of the bedroom.I loved that they had this intensely passionate, tumultuous relationship but at the core of it all was always their strong, unwavering love for each other. Everything else was just details.Entwined With Youstarted off right where book #2 ended throwing us right back in the story. If it has been a while since you’ve read the last book, I would recommend re-reading at least the last chapter of book #2 before starting this just to get yourself back into the details of the story.In this book, Gideon and Eva’s journey continues as they fight their inner demons and nightmares and work together at maintaining and building a functional relationship filled with intense desire, love and commitment.One of my most favorite things about Gideon and Eva as a couple is that they TALK!!! They talk through EVERYTHING! They’ve both been broken by their pasts and are dealing with untold amounts of external stress and yet with them, their relationship always came first. I always knew what their top priority was. I could just feel it. And I absolutely freaking LOVED it.“I look at you, angel, and I want you so badly. I want to be with you, listen to you, talk to you. I want to hear you laugh and hold you when you cry. I want to sit next to you, breathe the same air, share the same life. I want to wake up to you like this every day forever. I want you.”Gideon Cross is the ultimate tortured, Alpha hero. He’s completely dominant and possessive but at the same time so vulnerable and broken. Truthfully, protective and possessive doesn’t even begin to describe him though. He’s also loyal, understanding, powerful, and passionate. He is just the perfect balance of everything in my eyes. He is Alpha enough to make me swoon but was always logical and rational in his actions. I absolutely loved that he always put Eva first. He was always thinking of her and it was clear in each one of his actions. If it’s possible, I love him even more after reading this book than I did before starting!I’ve always really loved Eva too. Deeply scarred by her past and also still hurt by things that had happened in their relationship (despite it being a missunderstanding), she had to work hard to keep being open. Luckily, Gideon helped balance her out. He was always insisting on working things through together. And at the end of the day, they both just wanted to make things work, and were willing to do anything to bring them closer to each other.I loved that they went toe to toe on everything. Yes, Gideon was powerful and dominating but Eva was also strong and independent. They didn’t clash, but rather they complimented each other. Their relationship was always balanced and I could never doubted the value they placed on their relationship. You could feel that they were willing to sacrifice anything for each other and never give up. I just loved it. It was heart warming to an extreme.“Despite everything, we were stronger than we’d ever been.”And the HEAT!!!! ohhhhh the intensity!! This has got to be one of the hottest books I’ve ever read! Not that it was literally the most graphic but just that their connection intensified every sexual encounter between them. It was scorching!! Sizzling! And, I’m not going to lie, they certainly took things further in the bedroom than they’d ever gone before. There was definitely an “oh my!!” moment for me at one point ;)But like I said, I loved that with them it was never all about the sex. I loved watching them genuinely, step-by-step work through their issues. I loved being able to see their progress and to see them grow both as individuals and as a couple.The build up of the book’s ending wasn’t as intense as the last one to be sure but that was totally okay with me. Given the context of the story, it didn’t feel right to have something super intense in that moment and I’m glad the author didn’t put some random drama there just for the sake of sensationalizing it. I respect her for staying true to the characters.The ending left us in a good place. My heart is happy and I couldn’t have asked for a better place to pause their story while we wait for the rest of the series to be released.It has been confirmed that there will be 2 more books in the series after this one. The Crossfire series will now have 5 books.I have loved this series from the start and if the next two books are going to continue Gideon and Eva’s story following the same path that these first 3 books have taken and just continue to develop their relationship together without stupidity or excess drama, then I’m all for it!!!At first, I thought I would have wanted the “happily ever after” we would have gotten had this been the final book but I can honestly tell you that I did NOT feel that any of the issues were dragged out, or just “put there” for the sake of creating more text. There was no “drama for drama’s sake” and everything that happened both made sense, kept me engaged (or fanning myself) and was believable for the characters.Also, given the amount of issues they still have to work through (which I won’t name in order to keep this spoiler-free), I’m honestly very happy that they’re getting more books. I think their story could easily take two more books to tell it in and there are still so many things that I personally WANT to see them work through that we would never have been able to see if the story had wrapped up in just this one book.I know some people said that the ending left them “desperately wanting more”, and while I respect their opinion, I just don’t get it to be honest. The story HAD to end somewhere and since we know there will be more books I was completely happy with the ending. Yes, in the issues external to the relationship, there are still unanswered questions but, if there weren’t any, then how would we ever have more books??Gideon and Eva were happy and together at the end. For the ending of a mid-series book, I couldn’t have asked for anything better.Personally, I loved it. Totally loved it. Gideon and Eva continue to be one of my absolute, all time favorite book couples and I can’t wait for more of their story!Basically, if you loved the first two books, you should absolutely read this!!❤As a final note, I just want to share this with you. It’s a message from the author that I really love and tells me all that I need to know about this series:“Is it possible for two abuse survivors to have a functional romantic relationship?” – Eva Tramell“Eva’s question is the core of the Crossfire series. The answer she receives (“Absolutely.”), gives her hope that she can find her way there with Gideon. I hope their journey touches you the way it has me. We all deserve a happily ever after.” (Sylvia Day)❤My casting for Gideon and Eva:*******************************VIDEO INTERVIEW with SYLVIA DAYby Aestas Book Blog!!!I was given the incredible opportunity to interview Sylvia and ask her questions about her inspiration for the CROSSFIRE series and where she sees the series going in the future!! The interview is spoiler-free!✦ WATCH HERE:http://aestasbookblog.com/sylviaday/*******************************For more of my reviews, visitAestas Book BlogAnd come join the Aestas Book BlogFacebook Page