“Everything’s a risk. Not doing anything is a risk. It’s up to you.”I’ve had about36 hoursto think about “Everything, Everything” and now that I’m actually beginning to write this review I still don’t know how I feel about the book.It’s a really good and interesting story and to claim that it didn’t captivate me definitely would be a lie. So why do I have those mixed feelings? And why is it still so hard to sort out my feelings and thoughts? I really don’t know, but maybe this review will help me to realise what’s been missing. And there certainly was something missing, I just can’t seem to be able to put my finger on it. XDWell, I guess we’ll just have to find out, right? ;-)The plot:Madeline Whittier has been ill ever since she’s been born. She has a rare disease that’s called SICD and due to this illness she’s unable to leave her house. Just to get in contact with other people and even other things might easily be the death of her, so that poor girl is actually eighteen and has never seen more than the room she’s living in. Well, and the neighbours that just moved in… Of course their handsome and nice son Oliver has immediately attracted Maddy’s attention and if you think that the shit just hit the fan, well, then you’re actually right! *lol*”I keep picturing myself floating high above the earth. From the edge of space I can see the whole world all at once. My eyes don’t have to stop at a wall or at a door. I can see the beginning and the end of time. I can see infinity from there.For the first time in a long time. I want more than I have.”So far, so good! Now that this is settled we can finally move to the character’s section and I bet to write about them will help me to figure everything, literally everything out! (No pun intended, I swear! ;-P)Warning: From now on there are going to be many spoilers!!! So yeah if you don’t want to be spoiled you better don’t continue!!! XDThe characters:”Is it always like that?” I ask, breathless.“No,” he says. “It’s never like that.” I hear the wonder in his voice.And just like that, everything changes.”Maddy:”Ever since Olly came into my life there’ve been two Maddys: the one who lives through books and doesn’t want to die, and the one who lives and suspects that death will be a small price to pay for it.”I liked the way she saw the world and thought about things. I loved that she was a bookworm and didn’t only want to see the world but also wanted to be an active part of it. I could understand her longing for more and I swear knowing about her complicated life I really, really, really felt sorry for her. Which she most certainly would kill me for, because Maddy is such a strong person and actually hates it to be pitied for being ill. After they came back from Hawaii my heart ached for her and to read about her struggle was so painful that I couldn’t decide whether I wanted to hug her or yell at her instead! I know why she banned Olly from her life and it definitely was the sensible thing to do… but well your head and your heart sometimes want different things and I think this is a life lesson Maddy had to learn the hard way. =(”I think of Olly, decontamination-cold and waiting for me. He’s the opposite of all these things. He’s not safe. He’s not familiar. He’s in constant motion.He’s the biggest risk I’ve ever taken.”Olly:I loved that boy ever since they moved in. Yes, for me it was insta love as well and to all of you who think this is impossible: No it’s not! You can fall for someone and you can fall hard and even though I know that many people claimed it was too fast I still have to disagree. Call it personal experience, but I definitely know what I’m talking about! ;-)So yeah, back to Olly! I loved his humour and the fact that he could be serious as well. I swear the story about “The Bundt” made me laugh so hard!!!”The thing about my mom’s Bundts is that they are not very good. Terrible. Actually inedible, very nearly indestructible. Between you and me.””I gasp. Did the cake just commit suicide? I crane my neck to see what’s become of it, but it’s too dark out. Just then a spotlight illuminates the cake. Unbelievably, it’s still intact. What is that thing made of?”*LOL* Just *lol*!!!That boy certainly was awesome boyfriend material and the more I got to know him the more I wanted him to be with Maddy! I mean seriously there is no better first boyfriend than a guy who’s funny, cheeky, quick-witted, brave, responsible and caring! Those two were just too cute together and I really wanted their ship to sail!!”In my head I know I’ve been in love before, but it doesn’t feel like it. Being in love with you is better than the first time. It feels like the first time and the last time and the only time all at once.”Madeline’s mom:”How could you do this to me? After everything?”I want to say something, I open my mouth to say it, but nothing comes out.My guilt is an ocean for me to drown in.Oh man!!! Don’t even get me started! At the beginning of the book I really liked her relationship with Maddy and I thought that they were a good team, but the more I read, the more I began to dislike her mom! Yes, she wanted to protect her girl but she really could have shown a little more sympathy for her daughter! I mean that poor girl lived her entire life in a bubble and then she falls in love and all her mother does is to fire the only person who was ever really close to her. Looking at it in retrospective the entire incident with Carla definitely made sense and I still can’t believe that I’ve been so blind. Still, what Maddy’s mother did isU.N.F.O.R.G.I.V.A.B.L.E!!! I understand that she seems to have a mental illness, but damn if I’d be Maddy I’d be sooo angry at her!! No, scratch that, I know I wouldn’t be angry, I would be furious!!! How could she? How could she do that to her own daughter??? To her own flesh and blood!!! I can’t!!!! I can’t even put into words how much I loathe her for doing this to poor and innocent Maddy!”I knew it was more than that. I had to protect you. Anything can happen to you out here.” She looks around. “Anything can happen to you out here. In the world.”Well and maybe I just found the reason why my feelings for this book seem to be so contradictory. As a mother of a child I know that the love for your little one is unconditional and true. You always try to do what’s best for your child, but in Maddy’s case her mother actually did something completely wrong. Sure, from her POV and in her mind her daughter was ill, but this still doesn’t change anything about the fact that she basically ruined her daughter’s life! With her actions she took away all of Maddy’s choices and in the end she even managed to make her ill.”And it’s the wanting that pulls me back down to earth hard. The wanting scares me. It’s like a weed that spreads slowly, just beneath your notice. Before you know it, it’s pitted your surfaces and darkened your windows.”So yes, I think that’s the main reason why the book left a bitter taste in my mouth and resulted in the fact that I don’t know whether I liked it or not. The ending and the repercussions of her mother’s actions made me so angry, but then there was the fact that Maddy and Olly got a second chance at love and this actually made me hopeful and happy again.Do you see how much I’m struggling with this review? *lol*All things considered I still think that “Everything, Everything” was a very good book. Sure it had its weaknesses and flaws, but in the end this didn’t change anything about the fact that it was one hell of a page turner. I constantly found myself wanting to know what would happen next and when it comes down to it, this is actually one of the many things that make a good book, a really good book. Right? XD