BE WARNED: GIFs aheadUgh. Experiment FAIL.Let me start with a quick note about names. Yeah, BAVR likes to open with the important stuff. What in the name of all things holy is up with the names in these New Adult books? Here are the names of some of thejerkscharacters in this book: Pepper, Reece, Emerson, Hunter, and Georgia. On their own, the names are wholly inoffensive, I suppose. I wouldn't name my child any of those things, but it's not like the author named them "Speedboat" or "Kitchen" or anything. However, compare that list of names tothis listof popular/common names if you search for the year 1992 (the median year of their likely births).Do you see what I'm getting at here? Where are the Jennifers and the Mikes and the Ashleys and the Brandons?Am I being too picky?So,Foreplayis pretty much the paint-by-numbers story you get when a big name publisher decides to take on the New Adult genre. The grammar is passable, perhaps the story is less offensive, but the annoying tropes are ALL THERE.Oh, and if this were a classroom and the teacher called "Sexism's" name, it would probably raise its hand and say, "Present!" But I'm sure you expected that.Pepper, the narrator, is kind of an asshole. Is that okay to state right off the bat? I mean, I'm not ashamed of calling her an asshole because she is one, but maybe I should start with something more concrete. Like that she's a cow. Pepper is a virgin (big surprise!), never been kissed ...Sorry, Drew Barrymore.... andso fucking abovethe "college scene" of dating and partying at bars and stuff.She is surrounded by the typical NA people:- her friend Emerson, who gamely takes on the role of Contractually Obligated NA Skank RoommateTurning, she lined up her pool stick and prepared her shot, earning a lot of stares when she bent over, thrusting her bottom up in the air to the appreciative gazes of nearby guys, specifically the two that had invited us to play pool with them.- her responsible friend Georgia, who's practically married to some dude I have a feeling will be Outsville in an inevitable sequel- good-natured, wealthy Hunter, brother of her best friend from home and aspiring doctor- tortured bad boy Reece who sets Pepper's nether regions afirePepper has been in love with Hunter since she was a kid, and her life's plan includes becoming a therapist for children and marrying him. Unfortunately, she isn't dating him yet, nor does he know that she cares. This is normal, guys. All girlsseriouslyplan their futures with guys who are oblivious to their feelings. Then our dads/brothers/guardians hand over our dowries to them, and we pop out 14 kids to make sure the family fortune will pass down to male heirs.Duh.But Pepper's smart (so they say), and she realizes that she can't marry Hunter unless she actually slaps on some big girl panties and talks to him. But, like, talking is really hard for this girl.I took a sip from my cup and glanced around the room, eyeing the crowd. Beautiful girls were everywhere, laughing, talking, flipping their hair with smooth, gliding movements. I'd never felt so apart from my environment as I did in that moment. Any one of these girls had a better shot with Hunter than I did. All because they weren't afraid to go after what they wanted. All because they knew how to talk, how to act, how to be around guys. And they didn't need a kind club to educate them. They figured it out and I could, too.Emerson comes up with a totes brill plan to teach Pepper what should come naturally to a human being. After all, Pepper's been beautiful all along. The only thing she needs is some practice with an easily expendable boy toy .And Pepper, who I have to repeat is a PSYCH MAJOR, decides that she must learn to flirt with boys. For science.Enter: Reece ...... the guy at the local bar who apparently hooks up with EVERYONE.So Pepper drags Reece into her little plan, and it's as awful as I suspected. The problem with this is that Reece is, for the most part, a really good guy. He makes a decent living, he genuinely likes Pepper, he gives her orgasms likewhoa, andhe isn't really a man-whore.And for probably 80% of the story, Pepper looks down on him because he doesn't have a formal education and works in a bar. Don't believe me? Eat some quotes!Was he a student, too? What else did he do? Besides half the girls that trolled through here--if rumors were to be believed. He had to have something else going for him. Disappointment curled through me to think that there might be nothing more for him than this. No goals outside of tending bar.So working at the bar was all there was for him. Again, there was that stab of disappointment. Which was not only judgmental of me but absurd. I wasn't considering this guy for a boyfriend or lifelong partner material. I shouldn't feel anything at hislack of ambition.Moo.There's nothing like a classist heroine to get BAVR's jaws a-chomping.When Hunter starts to show interest in the "new and improved" Pepper, our bovine heroine is left with a big choice. Will her "foreplay lessons" with Reece lead to true love, or is her destiny forever intertwined with that guy she latched onto because he comes from a wealthy family and treats her like a little sister?Personally, I wanted Reece to dump her ass and hook up with someone who doesn't suck, but I won't spoil the ending for you.Read if you dare.In the spirit of full disclosure, I've read one of Sophie Jordan's HR novels and enjoyed it far more than this. I was hoping she could bring something new to the New Adult formula, but that doesn't seem to beanyone'sintention at the moment. Authors: Please make that your intention. I'm on the tail-end of the NA demographic and can't relate to these stories at all. There is so much potential in the genre, and everyone's pissing it down their leg in exchange for eroticrap and trite drama. My generation is better than this, people. Step it up.