I’m onBookTubenow! =)”are you flirting with me or something Nicholas”“Maybe I am, Charles …….”“you are terrible at it”This volume was great again and by now I think my love for the“Heartstopper”series knows no boundaries. It always feels so good to come back to this world and to be part of the amazing queer found family Alice Oseman created. By now they feel like real people and the mere thought of Volume 6 being the last feels kinda overwhelming. I know this series has to end, but after being a fan of Nick and Charlie for years (I read Volume 1 on tumblr long before it was even released as a paperback and when Alice’s name was still a whisper in the queer community on the net) I just can’t wrap my head around the idea of this series being finished. It feels so surreal, but it is the way it is. *sigh* I’ll miss those two and their friends. T_T Anyway! Let’s not be maudlin and talk about Volume 5 instead!”Why? You know I, like … really fancy you”“I know, it – it’s not really anything to do with you, I just … It’s just all in my head.”“Is there anything I can do to help?”This time around we tackle the important topic of trust and sexual intercourse and I think Alice did an amazing job of conveying Charlie’s as well as Nick’s struggles. Both boys feel more and more ready to take their relationship to the next level, yet at the same time they are both scared of this huge step. What I really liked was that Oseman stayed true to her characters and showed how different their reasons of being scared were. For Charlie being intimate with Nick was a struggle, not because he didn’t love him or didn’t want to be with him in that way, but because of his mental health and the thoughts that invaded his mind whenever they got close to being intimate. Charlie knew that he could trust Nick completely, yet his mind still interfered and got in the way. OCD and the impulse to control things is not something you can turn off and I love that Alice Oseman was able to portray this so well.”A part of intimacy is trusting someone enough to let go of that control a little. And that can be very difficult sometimes. But it’s important to remember that as long as you and Nick trust and respect each other, and are listening and communicating with each other, then you’re safe, and there’s nothing to worry about.”I loved Mr. Geoff for saying this and I loved him even more for having an open ear for Charlie and trying to help him to get to the solution on his own. And I fully agree with him: Charlie is strong! I think he doesn’t even realize how far he’s come and I’m so proud of him for tackling his problems heads-on and addressing the things that are important to him. He’s come such a long way! Also the way he stood up to his mum and didn’t allow her to get away with trying to control him again. Awesome! That’s my boy! I think his mum played a very big role in Charlie’s and Tori’s mental health getting worse and worse and a lot of their problems stemmed from her being too strict and controlling, so it’s good for them to speak up for themselves and to set some boundaries.”I’m not a child.And if I want to spend time with my boyfriend, then I will. You can’t stop me.”Nick’s mum is the complete opposite of Charlie’s and I love Mrs. Nelson so much, you have no idea!!! This woman is made of awesomesauce. Period! The casual way she offered Nick to go to the pharmacy if he and Charlie needed something. Acceptance and absolutely no judgement! This is a mum, who truly cares about her son and supports him no matter what! Gosh, the world needs more mums like that! Even though Nick felt very embarrassed by her offer, which is understandable but damn, is he lucky to have her. <3”If you need me to get you anything, I can always stop at the pharmacy on my way home from work.”“Mum please stop talking.”“Okay”I think Nick’s fear of taking the next step comes from being embarrassed by the topic of having sex in general and the fact that he doesn’t feel secure in who he is. There were so many things he figured out about himself in those last couple of volumes and it was just a lot. Plus he always had Charlie at his side who helped him along and emboldened him to be true to himself and to find his own way and voice. Nick kept so many things to himself before he became friends with Charlie and that almost makes him a completely different person to the first volume. Well, at least to his family and former friends. Deep down he was always the way he’s now but he never truly showed it and kept that part to himself.”When I realised I was bi … I feel like I woke up. Because I was repressing so much of myself before then. Not just my sexuality, but, like, my thoughts and feelings and personality.”Thankfully, he has a great support system of friends now, and Elle and Tara who aren’t afraid of nudging him in the right direction. Gently and with a lot of understanding and patience. I had to laugh so much when Elle addressed the elephant in the room and her and Tara accompanied Nick while he bought some “precautions”! Haha! Seriously, you need friends like this! Especially Elle! I love that fierce and bold girl that tackles everything heads-on and is never afraid to speak her thoughts and opinion! No wonder Tao is besotted with her. *lol* <3”Could we not have gone through like self-checkout?”“Nope.”“That’s £ 15.99 please.”“I hate you both”“You’ll be thanking us when you and Charlie get to –““ELLE!!”They spoke about Nick’s wishes as well and I thought that scene was so important for him. Nick was always more some sort of a people pleaser and just went along with his friends, and even now that he found his own voice he’s still struggling with going for what HE truly wants. I’m so glad Elle spoke up and was able to get through to him because she’s right. Of course Nick loves Charlie, but his future is important too and he needed to hear that. At that age you have to put yourself first and the people that truly love you will support you no matter what. I’m sure Charlie and him will figure it out.Elle: ”Nick, you always put everyone else’s feeling above your own. And I know you and Charlie love each other, but this is your future. Like, I know how you feel. I’m in the same boat. But … I have to put myself first right now.”Tara: “Charlie would support you! He wants you to be happy! Putting yourself first for once wouldn’t make him hate you!”Nick: “It – It’s not just about him. I’m scared to be away from him. I don’t know who I am without him.”Tara: “Maybe it’s time to find out.”Also, one of my favourite moments in this Volume was when Charlie and Tori took that Ferris wheel ride and spoke about Tori struggling with her sexuality and her love for Michael. The way Tori broke the news to Charlie that neither her nor Michael are straight was kinda funny but also serious at the same time?! I just loved the fine line between humour and severity in this scene. And can we, just for one second, acknowledge how relatable Michael Holden is?! I mean that quote below?! Pedro Pascal is awesome and the fact Michael loves him too, and is a fellow pansexual, only caused me to love him even more. I adore Michael Holden more and more. <333”Neither of us is straight, Charlie. I’m surprised you didn’t notice with Michael.”Michael: “Oh, are you guys watching “Normal People”? Paul Mescal is soooo sexy.Is that Pedro Pascal’s Instagram? I’m obsessed with him”Plus the sibling relationship between Charlie and Tori is one of the best things in this series. They truly care about each other and it made me so happy that Tori knew she could confide in Charlie and that he would listen to her. She might be his big sister but Charlie knew she had troubles and it was so heart-warming to see she trusted him enough to come out to him as asexual. And don’t even get me started on Charlie’s awesome reaction and the way he acknowledged her fears but also managed to give her the necessary support to confront them and encouraged her to talk about her feelings with Michael. It’s so wholesome to see them both supporting each other in that way and I need to see more of their sibling bond in the next volume. <3”FUCK what anyone thinks.Your relationship can be whatever you want. Girlfriend and boyfriend, or not. Who cares. I said to Nick once that if he didn’t ever want to have sex then that would be fine. Like, yes, I really want to do that with him, but if he didn’t, I wouldn’t break up with him. I love him. I know not everyone feels that way about their relationships, and that’s fine, but I do. Maybe Michael does too.”“A lot of people would think you’re weird for saying that.”“I don’t give a fuck.”Conclusion:I’m always in awe how Alice Oseman manages to tackle so many different issues in just one volume! And I’m even more flabbergasted by the fact that she always, really always, nails them in such a short time span. I mean this volume had 336 pages and they packed quite a punch! I can’t wait to read Volume 6 but I’m also sad because it will be the last one and I’ll have to say goodbye to the found family that accompanied me for years. T_T I already know it will be bittersweet, but thankfully, I have a little time left to make peace with the fact that there’ll be a final volume. <3 Wish me luck, I’ll need it. XD________________________________I know I say this about every “Heartstopper" volume BUTI loved it! <3Alice Oseman just writes all those characters and their struggles so well! It feels real! They feel real and they all had a lot on their plates once again. XDFull RTC soon! For now I’ll just say that I can’t wait for Volume 6!!!_________________________________I finally found“Heartstopper: Volume 5”at my library!!! YAY!I wanted to read this so badly ever since it came out and since I’m trying to finish all the books on my “currently reading” until the end of the year this is a good and short choice for in between.I can’t wait to find out what Charlie and Nick are up to in this volume! I’m sure it will be epic. <3I’m so ready for this, you have no idea!!!The excitement is real! XDFind me on:My BlogInstagram