3.2 starsI don't think there is anything more disappointing than audibly thanking god with a deep sigh of relief for finishing a book. Especially when you thought this would be a solid 4-5 star read.PIPER:💄 Wildchild💄 LA party girl💄 The center of every scandal💄 Famous for being famous💄 Often misjudged for being a blonde bimbo💄 Longest relationship - 3 weeks💄 So much more than the seemingly shallow exteriorShe was courageous, sweet, clever, seductive, adventurous, kind, guileless one moment, mischievous the next.PIPER'S VIBES:1)2)3)BRENDAN:🎣 Widower🎣 No he does not pine after his dead wife, thank lord. His actions are more out of obligation than emotion🎣 Fisherman🎣 Captain of his own boat🎣 Wants the heroine & acts grumpy abt it🎣 Fucking adorable🎣 Protective af🎣 Jealous af🎣 Obsessed with routineBRENDAN'S VIBES:1)2)3)^Those are just vibes btw and do not represent their physical appearanceAfter a humiliating breakup, an illegal party and a night spent in jail, Piper finds herself in a nightmare of a situation.She along with her sister are being sent away from the money, mansions and galas to a remote town near sea, the town she had once called home before the death of her dad. A fitting punishment in the eyes of her stepfather. Piper needs to be taught a lesson any 28 year old woman should have known long prior:aspirations and responsibility.Now she -an impulsive party girl- is stranded with a huge, bearded fisherman obsessed with routine and constant brooding, in a town full of people so unlike her usual crowd.she got a choice: Quit and prove all the assholes they were right about her worthlessness or..... finally find something deeper than the shallow, surface level life she has been living.What does that mean?It means we're about to have one wholesome ass romance.I heard many readers ask whether this is a slow burn and I'm here to tell you - NO.The book starts as enemies but quickly turns into friendship. The hero goes from just being a mean grump to an adorable grump.If you guys like pining heroes then this one hits the spot.Brendan managed to remain a simp throughout this ENTIRE book, and for the first half of it, he hides his attraction behind a grumpy exterior which Piper is semi oblivious to.When Brendan was being conscious about his humble living (which turned out to be not so humble after all) and thought Piper was out of his league, IT WAS PULLING AT EVERY STRING OF MY FROZEN HEART.The heroine took longer to admit her feelings. For a time she thought only of platonic friendship while Brendan was scaring men away and stalking her (or attempting to) on socials.But it can't exactly be called insta-love either.They did fall for each other pretty fast (the hero fell first btw tehe). I couldn't make up my mind on whether it was moving too quickly for my tastes or the cute ass moments between them were worth the pace.WHAT ABSOLUTELY RUINED THIS BOOK FOR ME THOUGHwas the sheer ridiculousness and laughable convenience of the third act conflict.My lord that shit was more dramatic thanDiver's heart- They fight- Branden storms out like a sulky child- Piper promises she will come and see him off for his fishing trip the next day. Which is her way of proving that she wants to stay with him instead of going back to LA-Convenience #1 happens:For no reason whatsoever Piper has been walking some random old man for weeks now. Some of you may tell me it's because she is a good person, but I know now it's so he can get a fucking head injury right before Piper has to meet Branden.- She misses his departure and stares at the retreating dot of his boat😔*tears, sobbing, end of life crisis, oh no*I mean it's not like he's coming back in 2 days or anything- She has her bar opening and no one shows up. Not even Branden, her grandma or the stepfather.*self doubt, basically the end of the world at this point, she "loses her sparkle" lmao*- So in her defeat and despair, she packs up her shit and goes to a party in LA🤡-Convenience #2:Branden doesn't show up to her bar opening because as he was coming back from his trip there was some delay. Ikr? The magic of accidental head injuries and unexplainable delays. Poor guy misses Piper's hurried departure to LA.*THE REAL DRAMATICS BEGIN*Sorry jeez. Idk what's wrong with me.....got so emotional there for a sec😢Long story short, after non stoptears, misery, pain, loss, anguish, torment, torture and every other depressing thoughtyou can think of, they were finally reunited and all was right in the world.EXCEPT ME!!!