The author can write. The story was good but there were a few things that bugged me. Granted partly because those points bug me in general but also I think these need to really make sense to the overall story. If logically it does not make sense or it is completely unrealistic then in my opinion it does not work for the overall story. So, we have a rich MMC who is in a relationship with a nasty shallow but hot woman where the sex is amazing (a point the MMC brings up internally more than once) also she was up to try things. He is friends with the MFC brother who is a douche and his equally nasty shallow wife. The MFC has been back home working for the MMC company for 3 years. He has known her since she was young like early teens. She has had a crush on him for years. She is closed off in general due to being shy and an accident that left her with scars on her legs lower body. The MMC is 35 and it’s mentioned that she is 6 years younger? So the MMC is just working more with the MFC due to her direct boss being off on parent leave. He is a giant ass to her and everyone notices it. She overhears him talking to the girlfriend saying nasty things about her body and her being boring as fuck. This is another stab in her already self esteem issues. Everyone in her immediate circle treats her badly. The MMC the girlfriend the brother and his wife. She has a good friend who treats her like a queen. First his internal thoughts on his life the girlfriend and the MFC paints him in a super selfish way. Not to mention superficial. He waits way too long to break it off with the girlfriend. Immediately after he is going after the MFC it felt like he did not want to give up the girlfriend unless he was sure about the MFC. No matter how nasty she was this did not paint the MMC in a good light. He was using her plain and simple and the longer he dragged it on the more sure she was they were getting engaged. So no matter how I felt about her he did her dirty. It also did not feel realistic that someone with thoughts on beauty would do a 180 on it. If there had been more internal thoughts on the MFC in a positive light I would have bought the out of the blue attraction more. Instead it felt like the MFC was plain and boring still and I could understand him admiring her for what she had done for her father but was still wondering where this lust came from all of the sudden besides running into her and seeing her body in form fitting clothes. The talk of him watching her for years ya ok so in all that time you never examined how you felt. Again made him seem self absorbed and not worthy. On to the MFC this is one of my biggest pet peeves in a romance novel. She is a virgin. The author tried to explain it away by her being shy than the self esteem issues from her scars. This is another reason why I was not in full confidence of their love story. You have a shy girl by the authors description is plain that has a huge crush on the MMC since she was 13 (started when she overheard him stand up to her brother on not helping her). So she had no boyfriend’s and is then in this horrible accident that the MMC never knew about where she was in hospital with surgery on surgeries. Her nasty sister in law says nasty things about her scars along with her brother and even the MMC girlfriend yet he did not know anything about it. Why? Was he never told or did not care enough to really listen. So because of her scaring she never lets anyone close. Then her long time crush who literally has treated her like crap who just broke up with his nasty girlfriend wants her scars and all. It felt like she was so starved for attention never been in a relationship never had sex she had no point of comparison that this was about being desperate for that connection not this grand love story. I would have bought more into it if she had had sex with a couple different people one being after the accident. If she knew what a relationship was like and what good sex was like. She I think was a little too forgiving on how he had treated her. I also found the sex while steaming a bit cringy meaning all of a sudden they are going at it like rabbits and he thinks about their sex life like he did with the ex that it was amazing. Yes he thinks it was the best of his life in another internal thought but it felt kind of gross after getting his thoughts for a chunk of the book on sex with the OW. Also, the whole thing with his Mom did not feel realistic. Overall their relationship was cute but I did not finish it believing in their love story fully. If there is one thing I want from a romantic relationship romance book is to believe in their love and relationship that it’s end game for both fully and completely. That being said I still rated 4 because the writing was good and there was great potential for a grand love story with a few tweaks. I can’t dock too much because that’s more a preference not a deal breaker.