3.9/5 ⋆˚☆˖°ˋ°•*⁀➷ My initial thoughts are this was very bingeable - I finished it in 24 hours. It was over the top and ridiculously detailed - in a good way. I adore Lachlan Kane & their romance was very swoon worthy. I love unconditional love, despite all the skeletons in the hypothetical closet.The only thing I didn't like about this book is that I felt like it lacked plot - or the plot was very shallow, in my opinion. Compared to Butcher & Blackbird, I'd say I liked the romance in this one more but the plot in the first one more.ˋ°•*⁀➷Plot:A fake marriage of convenience is always a creator of tension and a lot of fun. This was less convenience fake dating though, this was like'we need to marry or you die.'I loved being in this universe again though, two morally grey characters that hate each other and end up married.I will say, this was morecharacter driventhan Butcher & Blackbird. There's no fun murder games this time and even though this book followed the same formula as the first one, it felt a little more lacklustre.There is plenty of gore and serial killer madness, as well as some verysufficientspice scenes. I'm not typically a reader of spice, but I'm a fan of Brynne Weaver's depictions.ˋ°•*⁀➷Characters:I liked Lark and Lachlan wayyyy more than I liked Sloane and Rowan.Lachlanis the broody older brother and is definitely attractive in a bad boy that you want to have a soft spot for you kind of way. He's not all sex, he has such a caring, nurturing but leading masculine vibe. 10/10.Larkis bubbly and fun. She's thegolden retrieverto Sloane's black cat personality. I found her just fun to follow, and she was complex. A little bit of childhood trauma mixed with a fierce protector - leads her to make life altering decisions. I was a bit surprised thatshe doesn't tell Sloane about her 'multiple deleter' antics. I think they'd have a blast carrying out their vigilante justice right?ˋ°•*⁀➷World/Setting:This was where I didn't reallynotice anything special.It's set in... Boston? or Rhode Island? I'm genuinely not sure because it was never really relevant to the story in my opinion. The graphic scenes where described in great detail, and were so incredibly uncomfortable that I visibly cringed - exactly like they were intended to make you feel.ˋ°•*⁀➷Pacing:I finished this inless than 24 hours- so it was for sure easy to flip the pages. It felt like the romance was developing more and more at a good pace - the plot though was never really at the forefront so I can't really comment on that.ˋ°•*⁀➷Enjoyment:I did love reading this - mainly because I just adored the romance and felt my heart flutter during all their tense pining. The plot is a fun premise and I enjoy reading about serial killers. In no way is this a thriller though. I saved a bunch of quotes that I wish I could hear in real life.Would I recommend this?Yes - especially if you've read the first one! ᥫ᭡╔═════ ❀•°❀°•❀ ═════╗score card:plot: 3.5/5characters: 5/5world/setting: 3/5pacing: 4/5enjoyment: 4/5total: 3.9/5ੈ✩‧₊˚╚═════ ❀•°❀°•❀ ═════╝⋆⋅☆⋅⋆ ── reading log07/06 12:13am ʚɞ» it's midnight and i can't put it down help⋆⋅☆⋅⋆ ── pre-readingI have never been so excited for a release to come out this year - as I completely adored butcher & blackbird I have been impatiently awaiting this book and I have such high expectations but I am so certain this will deliver︶︶︶ ⊹ ︶︶︶⠀୨♡୧⠀︶︶︶ ⊹ ︶︶︶june tbr:ಇ.first lie winsಇ. the only one leftಇ.leather & larkಇ. if something happens to meಇ. the familiarಇ. the warm hands of ghostsಇ. a court of silver flames