I have quite a few things to say about this one so bare with me.First of all, I was really anticipating this book as soon as I read the back synopsis. It sounded very interesting and very intriguing. I was looking forward to seeing it all played out on the pages because I could see it getting very complicated and very emotional. It also felt like it could be very angsty for Tallulah and Nash’s romance. It seemed to have all the markers of what made an Abbi Glines’s angsty romance.However, it didn’t have the great markers of a true Abbi Glines angsty romance, in fact I felt like there was very little romance between Tallulah and Nash. Yes, they were kind of dating and they were staring off point to a great romance, but I didn’t feel like they were there yet, or that they had completely fallen in love with each other by book’s end. Maybe on her end, but I don’t think on his end. Now I don’t know if the fact that this was a YA book had something to do with the lack of romance, but I read two other books in this series, and I felt like the romance was more defined and felt than it was in this one. I knew it wasn't going to be explicit or graphic like Abbi Glines’sRosemary BeachandSea Breezeseries, but I did expect more of the focus to be on Tallulah and Nash like those series, instead of focusing on the outside stuff, which I felt took more prominence in this story. They just kind of took a back burner to every thing else, and I wish some things were cut while others more explored.I think this book had many miss opportunities when it came to the story and the romance. I think the angst could have been played with a lot more. I think there could have been a lot more build up between Tallulah and Nash as the story progressed. I think they happened a lot quicker than they should have. I think they should have developed more of a friendship that deepened to something more as the story progressed. I even think just the whole issue with Tallulah having lost that weight, but not seeing herself as that beautiful girl yet could have been explored in more detail and also show how it effected her relationship with Nash. I think there could have been a few more intimate conversations between them over isolation and not feeling like they belong in the high school world and them connect over that because they both understood what they felt, or even have them explain their own pain over what had happened to them to make them the people that they were at that point. Just them having more conversations that went deeper would have benefited this romance more. It would really helped if it was shown more of that emotional intimacy developing between them. Or even more date nights would have been nice. Just more of a steady build to their love story.Another missed opportunity I think was pacing in this story. Some things could have been cut down more I think and have things brought to a head more quickly than it was. Like what happened with Mr. Dace that caused the rift between Tallulah and Nash could have been explored more, instead of rushed to the finish line. Yes, what direct result was explored and what kept them apart for a little bit, but I think that needed to be expanded more. It felt very rushed and I didn’t like. What do I mean when I say that? Once Nash realized his mistake and realized he wanted to win her and have her back in his life again, it took really no time from that point on to the ending. It happened way too fast. She was very forgiving for what he put her through and pain she suffered as well as the trauma that she went through not only with Mr. Dace, but Nash too. I think that should have been paced out more. I think it should have taken more time from when he decided to go to her to her forgiving him then them getting back together, instead it happened in a blink of an eye, and it felt way too abrupt for my liking. In fact the entire ending itself was easy too abrupt and over before I knew it. I think it needed an epilogue or something else to finish up their story, instead of them getting back together and being all hunky dory again. I didn’t like the ending at all. I would have been so much better if he worked at it more of winning her back then just doing that one thing, telling her that he loved her and all was forgiven. It wasn’t realistic at all. I would have liked to see that developed and explored more especially her pain so that he could understand how much he hurt her when he turned back on her because of the incident. That was more of the story I would liked because then their romance would have been the focus than anything else. There could have been so much more there.I don’t think I have ever read a book about a teacher pursing a student like Mr. Dace pursed Tallulah. It was different and very creepy to read about it. I liked that Nash recognized what it was right away, but I wish he kind of Tallulah about his suspicions right away so she would have been more prepared than she was. I was shocked that Mr. Dace kissed her and that creeped me out even more, and I really felt bad for her. She was attacked and violated in a way she never should have been, and even though she blamed herself, it wasn’t her fault. It made me sick that she even had that thought. Honestly I think for such a heavy issue like this one, it was a lot more diluted than it could have been. It could have been way more over the top especially with her trauma over the incident and then having Nash abandon her like he did that would have been another slap in the face. That could have been explored a lot more, and Nash could have helped her heal along the way as he won her back just like she healed him after losing football. I think that would have put more an interesting spin on the story if it was played up more. It would have made the story more intense and edgy and made it very interesting.I really liked Nash and Tallulah, even if I didn’t care for their romance, as well as the other side characters in the story. I enjoyed seeing the friendship between the guys on the football team and the bond that they had with one another. I was very sweet to see how they supported Nash in his time of need. I wish Tallulah had that as well in story after all this time of not having friends she really needed on aside form Nash. I really rooted for her, and she deserved a lot better from what she got from everyone except her mom, who was awesome by the way, and the fact that she didn’t was really sad. I felt so bad when Nash abandoned her in the way that he did, and I thought he didn’t deserve her after that. That’s why it was necessary for him to win her over more than he actually did in the book. She just broke my heart. As for Nash, even though he did some bone headed things especially when it came to Tallulah, I really liked him as well. I felt bad for him that he lost the one thing in his life that he thought would be part of his future forever and to lose it the way he did it was no wonder he had all these emotional scars going on. He had to learn to live in a way that it didn’t include football, and she did that for him. He felt more hopeful by having her in his life. At times I did think he used her as his crutch especially being that it didn’t seem like he was falling her deeply and at times it felt like he was using her as a distraction without really helping her to heal in the way that she was helping him. I just wish I felt more of him falling in love with her more than I did. Did he cared about her? Yes, but love no because I really see evidence of that. I needed more on that side.Overall this was not my favorite of the series nor was it my favorite Abbi Glines ebook. I think this book could have done so much more than it did especially in the romance between Tallulah and Nash. There was such potential in this book that I just felt was wasted. There could have been better pacing in the story with more things being developed while other things could have been pared down or eliminated altogether. Just some of the stuff in there I just didn’t need. The central focus should have been Tallulah and Nash’s romance, and I felt like that took a back burner to every thing else. I did like the individual storylines for Tallulah and Nash, but at the same time it took away from the romance. There just needed to be more romantic moments between them, instead there were few and far between. It was like they jumped to zero to sixty in no time flat. They only kissed a handful of times. There was one physical scene between them. I would have liked to see more emotional intimate scenes between them to show their development and bond grow throughout the story. They just needed more time together than they actually got in the book. It could have used a lot more angst and more build up between them. It was almost too easy for them. I didn’t like she forgave him so easily. I think he should have worked a lot harder to woo her back especially after what he did to her. I didn’t like the ending because it was very rushed and ended very abruptly. There needed to be something more to the ending than what was actually given in the story. I was just expecting a lot more than I got.