edit:the word 'big' in relation to jack was mentioned 12 times which is 11 times too oftenBefore I even think about starting this review I need you to know two words:lesbiansandSTEMDo I have your attention now? I should hope so because those two words are going to blow your fucking mind.i need you all to know and advocate forGeorge and Dorato get thier own romance book written by Ali herself,they are the most iconic people ever. George (Georgina) is a awesome physics women in stem and Dora makes souvolaki, people who know how to make suvolaki are next level cool. Nothing can change my mind.AND George is friends with Bee from Love on the Brain,HELLO Bee and Levi cameo.We can have a STEM Cinematic Universe where the character are all friends in some way. That would be epic. But im getting carried away.We need to advocate for a queer queens to get therelesbian women in stem romance.I NEED THIS IN MY LIFE no you dont understand its not a want, but a needSo, with that out of the way onto what you are actually here for, my thoughts on the books. And imma tell you right now that they are messy. Like toddler painting kinda messy.Sograb your popcorn, take a seat in front of the fire and let's get ready to RUMBLLEEEE*at this point imagine two boxers in a fighting ring, both representing my differing opinions*Okay so first lets not start with the positive because pshhh that soooo boring so lets start with what I found similar to the other two books which is an overarching theme in the Ali Hazelwood Cinematic Universe.Honestly, it's not as similar as i thought it would be (referancing my previous review down bellow)butwith that said there were still a heap ton of tropes and similarities to her other books.Lets have a chat about aroace chat and the spectrum hmn. I have noticed ali includes this in almost all of her novels. It was included inThe Love Hypothesisand god forbid we mention that sex scene inUnder One Roofit still remains with me no matter how much i try to purge it from my brain. And now im this book, now i am no expert when it comes to aroace rep but i feel like she always goes with the: ‘ive never wanted to have sex i dont know whats wrong with me’ line and that is so wrong.Now, there is one word that i cannot get behind and that is the use of the word “Daddy” I hate it so much. And i sould not be reading the word ‘daddy’ in a science romance book! It is simply unnacpetable and Iwill notstand for it. It was used inLove on the Brainand now this book. It will stop with this book. You hear me Ali Hazelwood?From me to you, we can both agree that miscommunication and down to earthstupidityis something we both wholeheartedly hate right? Yes well, funny you should agree because in this book and inLove on the Brainthe male love interest very patently tells them: “I DO NOT hate you I AM NOT WHO I WAS ALL THOSE YEARS AGO” somehow the amazingly smart and illtellegent women in stem still think these men hate them after literallythree whole freeking pagesof him telling her he doesnt and how he felt the entire trajectory of their relationship (from meeting to current) and i swear to you all the girls brain power must be directed towards academic because the havenone, nada, ZEROemotional intellegence EVEN AFTER BEING TOLD STRAIGHT TO THERE FACEWoah, this really rubbed me the wrong way, because it happened in TWO BOOKS and the guy is always so patient and nice. If i was in the situation god knows what I would do. Screw their heads on straight probably. They definatly need it.We all know that Ali Hazelwoodlovesto tell us every.single.page that the love interest is big and tall and ginormous and takes up all space. Granted she still did it here but toned it downa lotmy personal favourites were:“like how could i miss him when hes standing next to Adam Carlson. Theyre the Mount Rushmore of STEM academia”“He is……well, he is big. And well muscled, very well muscled”And saving the best for last:“His giant paws tightened around me”Think about that for a while won’t you?Lets talk about what I liked hmn? Why don’t you refil your popcorn and water you’ll be needing it.So, the thing I loved the most is that I had fun. I had so much fun reading the physics jokes and the story as a whole. The writing was so much better than her previous books. Praise the lord that they both had a personality and we got to know stuff about them (i didnt even know Adam was an evolutionary biologist until this book(how freaking cool is that as a job? OgkjdfjefbdhbdhjskI would kill to talk to someone with his knowlege and intelligence) like that's how little we got told about Adam) but in this book we got Jack's job upbringing and morals. It was good to have a more layered story than usual and still have fun. Usually Ali throws tropes into a mixing bowl and hopes for a delicious cake but thankfully it was a flowy story and that was not the case. InThe Love Hypothesisthere was trope after trope, as if to make readers happy and it did but gosh there was a lot jam packed in there.George was my favouite character of this entire book. She's my idol in life. She has many publications in physics, is super cool and has a wife that can make souvlaki. Now if you cant tell i really live Dora and George and i need their story now. I am deeply in love with both of them.I loved Elsies character development from extreme people pleaser(coming from a people pleaser) to her own person. It was so fun to see, especially with Jack helping her and calling her bullshit out.My most favourite thing of all was ofc the cameo from Adam and Olive and the friend group with all the cool science people.thatin my opinion was the best part of the bookand that's why we need a george and Dora book so we can have more of thatNow that all the boring stuff is out of the way let's get into what I didnt like because this is the real juicy stuffIhatedthe main characters actual name: Jonathan, but only because thats name of a close relative of mine and it's weird to read a romance with their name in itAnd that name? Jack Smith? I still stand by my clain that that sounds like the most old white man that throws money at stuff to make it go away guy. Honestly add some spice, some paprika, lemon peper, cinnamon to make it taste better on the tongue.I got the scene, that as a millennial Ali was trying to be ‘hip’ and be ‘down wid it’ as the first few chapters really showed meIn the very first chapter we got told her favourite movie was Twilight (pop culture reference is not good, we dont like that) and honestly her professor should have failed him because she liked twilight. I strongly dislike that movie and so personally i agree with the proffesor. there i said it. and yk what idc if its wrong.I think Ali is trying to live through her characters, I can see her personality come through her books and not in a good way. She includes ‘quirks’ because women in stem have to be unique and quirky. (as a woman in stem i can tell you i'm not. I read, study, and listen to Taylor Swift. So not very quirky at all) There was a quote she put in that made me feel like Ali was justifying her opinions:”Not that there would be anything wrong: sex work is legitamite work, and people that engage in it are just as deserving of respect as ballerinas, or firefighters or hedge fund managers”I mean she's not wrong, but we didnt need to include it in a romance novel did we? So that's now my biggest problem, that she includes her own shit into romance novels. but i guess thats how i perceve it. Like social issues in books i dislike because i want a whole different world without all the shit that happens in this book.NB: Riddle me this: miss people pleaser can't tell her best friend her favourite movie was twilight but can tell her client???Okayyyy, I think I'm done, now get up and stretch your legs, it's been a long read. Go to the wharepaku (toilet) and i will leave you with this:we need lesbian women in stem romance book, george and Dora are right there Ali, USE THEM.....{About this review below, yes it was insensitive for me to write a review before I read a book, but it was my opinion from reading the blurb so I am not sorry I did it}{this review is based off the synopsis i have not been given an arc}I asked and Miss Hazelwood did not deliver.This book looks like an exact carbon copy of Love on the Brain and The Love Hypothesis mashed together"Rival physicistscollide in a vortex ofacademic feuds and fake dating shenanigansin this delightfully STEMinist romcom"Sound familiar??In The Love Hypothesis Adam and Olive fake datedIn Love on the Brain Levi and Bee were rivals in collage"By day, she’s an adjunct professor, toiling away at grading labs and teaching thermodynamics in the hopes of landing tenure. By other day, Elsie makes up for her non-existent paycheck by offering her services as a fake girlfriend"Again InLove on the BrainBee was a scientist by day and a social media STEM infulence by night. Seems like all her characters have two 'personas'Jack Smith,the annoyingly attractive and broodyolder brother of her favorite client, turns out to be thecold-hearted experimental physicist who ruined her mentor’s career and undermined the reputation of theorists everywhereagain, sounds familiar??In The Love Hypothesis Adam was known for turning people thesis down because 'they wernt good enough' he was known as cold hearted and scary.In Love on the Brain, Bee thought Levi ruined her career.Also what kind of simple ass name is Jack Smith, please choose something more interesting for flavour.Elsie is prepared for an all-out war of scholarly sabotage but…those long, penetrating looks? Not having to be anything other than her true self when she’s with him? Will falling into an experimentalist’s orbit finally tempt her to put her most guarded theories on love into practice?I bet you that this book will be that the girl finds out how soft and sweet he is under that scary persona and he'll only be nice to herEven the covers look the sameI rest my casethank you for coming to my TED talkp.s i will still be reading this because well women in stem what am i to do? already not enough around so despite my hypothesis (get ittt) i will still be reading and lets hope that I am dead wrong.........................this looks like every other Ali Hazelwood book ESPECIALLY THE LOVE HYPOTHESIS IT LOOKS THE EXACT SAMEBut at least he doesn’t have black hair right? Let’s take what we can get…………………AliPlease don’t become a one hit wonder. Do something different.Love Zoe