The plot is already known so there’s not much to spoil.The hero and the heroine have been in a serious relationship for two years and they’ve been living together for some time, she overhears him telling his mother he will always love his ex but he doesn’t love her, and what he had with his ex was all consuming while with the heroine he’s confortable. The heroine decides to leave him so it’s her to make the move, while he’s still uncertain.Basically his ex, who dumped him for another man five years before, is now free, and she would like to hook up with him again, since they’re both of the same circle, and he’s been pining for her for years, he decided to try with her, as soon as the heroine is out of the picture.He’s being pressured by both his family and the ex family to marry her, since it would be good for business, but it’s apparent that he’s not that into it.It’s my opinion that he wouldn’t have dumped the heroine, since after she left him he never even dated ow, he never had sex with her and never was turned on for her, so I suppose he would have understood it in a short time without breaking up with the heroine.The break up was painful but the heroine had friends who loved her and even met a very charming man who was attracted to her.She kisses him a couple of times but she doesn’t have sex with him, sadly. I wish she had sex with him because, you know, retribution.After some months the hero realizes he loves the heroine and doesn’t love ow, and actually he didn’t even try with ow, then proceeds to grovel.My opinion.Three stars for the angst and because the hero was celibate after he and the heroine broke up, and because he was never even tempted by ow. That was very good. It makes the fact that he admits only loving the heroine much more believable.The impression was that he was pressured by his family and he was glad that his ex who rejected him for another man now wanted him back. He was never into her, but I was annoyed that he admitted having feelings every time he saw her. That was not good and I love consistency, so if he did love the heroine why should he feel excited, not in sexual way but like a man in love, when he saw her? That was imo very inconsistent.Whatever.I also didn’t like him as a person. He’s weak, he’s a people pleaser, he was never by her side whenever his family, who, btw, were a bunch of awful people I would love not to meet in my life as in, ever, made disrespectful remarks about her not wing from his social circle.I hated this.And I hated that the heroine was so much more than him and than all of them but she let them treat her like dirt. I mean, she’s smart, a phd, a professor, she’s got an iq that is twice as much as the total sum of them all, yet she didn’t have any pride or self respect.I met many smart, intelligent and cultured people and let me tell you, they are usually very self confident and they know their own value. I mean, the hero and his idiotic family had never fought for anything since all they had was family money, how could they ever compare to them? Yet she felt like she was not enough for the hero when she saw him with his ex, she thought she didn’t compare.It should have been the opposite.I also find that she gave in too soon, because of TBS, which I hate. I wish she had made him wait much longer because he was not worthy of her and he had to prove he was willing to wait forever for her. After all, he never tried to fight for her when she left him. He never thought to win her back, not until months later.So, in the end, I liked the angst and the celibacy, but I didn’t like the hero at all. Sadly this author has always had some heroes that I define men you would like to avoid like the plague, since at the moment not one of them would be worthy of a second glance.But the whole book was entertaining, I didn’t feel like I was annoyed or uncomfortable and it was very well built. I suppose many can claim it has emotional cheating since he said he didn’t love the heroine but never stopped loving ow, but imo he was only a weak, immature and unworthy people pleaser who didn’t even know he was lucky that the heroine ever looked in his direction. To me he was not in love with ow but anyway, his love for the heroine wasn’t worth mentioning.And I also wished the heroine had more self confidence and pride not to let him and his rotten family step on her. Om was very cute and imo he was a better option than the hero, sadly not this time.So, I appreciate that this author is writing a bit of different stories than the first ones. Her latest books have been pleasant, with dumb and immature and selfish heroes who were not overly cruel and what I appreciate most, they were celibate after breaking up with the heroine. I hate double standard and cheating and I hate when he hero is with other women after he met the heroine and this was not the case. I know it’s easier to write an angsty story if there’s cheating and if the hero is with ow, bit it’s also the least creative and original way, so when an author makes an effort and is able to write such an angsty story without these cheap devices I am always appreciative and so the three stars.Safety as I said is good, the hero was never with another woman after meeting the heroine and so the heroine. Both kissed op after the breakup but the hero never enjoyed and wasn’t never attracted to anyone than the heroine, so to me it’s ok.Good book, I recommend it.