‘Life offers up these moments of joy despite everything.’The directions our lives take are often shaped by those around us, particularly actions made out of love. Normal People, the second novel by the acclaimed writer Sally Rooney, is a moving narrative of the steps and missteps of young love as two people grow into themselves in a troubled world of class divide and social pressures. The book follows Connell and Marriane from their first days as secret lovers in high school through their tumultuous friendship--often sexual--at Trinity College, Dublin. Normal People is at its best when addressing the social issues of class, which she brilliantly uses sex as a medium to elaborate on the power dynamics and dehumanizations of capitalism. While there are a few problematic moments regarding Marianne’s preference towards submission that seems to disregard her autonomy in her own sexuality and assume that the preference is the hallmark of being “damaged”, Rooney manages to very accurately describe modern love in a way that expresses the complexities in all their untidy beauty, as well as the social posturing and emotions of college years. Through using sex as a navigational device across society and told in a sparse, matter-of-fact style that doesn’t impose an authorial judgement over the events in favor of acknowledging the reader’s ability in being able to decode for themselves, Normal People is a success that is nearly impossible to put down.Great news, Rooney more that lives up to the hype. The press releases marketed Irish writer Sally Rooney as the “first great millennial novelist”--a fairly eye-rolling label clearly intended to hit nerves and spark conversation in what also seems a constant attempt from the gatekeepers of older generations to minimize or infantilize the millennial generation--and her name has achieved pop-culture accolades recalling Elena Ferrante from a few years ago. Even Taylor Swift recently came out of the woods to recommend Rooney’s first novel,Conversations with Friends. Speaking of eye-rolling marketing, Conversations was hailed as the “Salinger of the Snapchat Generation,” which seems like something impossible to proclaim unironically. In all this misguided and lazy-label hype that seems half intent on wishing for her downfall, Rooney is an utter delight to read and Normal People is a wonderful achievement. If she is a "Salinger of Snapchat"? That is up to you to decide (personally I hate that label too much to make a judgement call), but isNormal Peoplean original and insightful accomplishment? Definitely.Normal People begins with Connell and Marianne in high school as what seems like caricatures of themselves. If initially their characters feel a touch cliche, it is because we are all a bit of a cliche at that age. Connell is the smart, athletic type concerned how others think on him whereas Marianne is an outcast who is considered strange for daring to be an intellectual woman and not caring what others think of her (okay, maybe it is alittleoverly cliche, but bear with me here). After a secret relationship--Connell being concerned his friends will know they are sleeping together in a way that is outright abusive--they part ways only to reunite at Trinity College where now Connell is the quiet outsider and Marianne the center of attention. A turning of the tables he deserves as in high school he had a sense his social status made him too good for her and he deeply hurt her because of it as ‘his attraction to her felt terrifying, like an oncoming train, and he threw her under it’. The novel launches from here into many turnings-of-the-table, complicated friendships and near-misses, with each seemingly caught in each others gravity no matter what they do or who they are with.‘It's funny the decisions you make because you like someone, he says, and then your whole life is different. I think we're at that weird age where life can change a lot from small decisions.’It is truly moving seeing the ways a person’s trajectory in life can be so shaped by those around them. Being set at the start of this decade, the artifacts of the era--such as a scene discussing economic policy while listening to the first Vampire Weekend album--were deeply nostalgic for me and reminded me what life was like in the age of the characters. While some might decry them as overdramatic or bold representations of themselves, remembering who you were at the age of 19 and all the social posturing of that period is a good way to really appreciate how well Rooney captures the age frame of her characters. The social dynamics of a college campus are really well done. Marianne, for example, is honestly interested and invested in social justice and politics, but a girlfriend of Connell’s assumes her discussions about it at parties as a grab for attention. Connell, on the other hand, is very well read but doesn’t name drop books the way others do and is suspected of being uncultured and dumb by Marianne’s male make-a-show-of-being-cultured friends (you know the type: the guy that will tell you information about Ian Curtis without you asking, corrects someone’s pronunciation of Sarte, and casually leaves work-in-progress art lying around but acts annoyed if you comment on it, as a friend recently put it).He did gradually start to wonder why all their classroom discussions were so abstract and lacking in textual detail, and eventually he realised that most people were not actually doing the reading. They were coming into college every day to have heated debates about books they had not read.The society at the Uni is very much indicative of social class, Connell at one point telling his therapist he has actually witnessed students argue over which of their father’s make more money. Being a working class outsider, or a ‘culchie’ as the slang goes, he observes that many of the excessively rich students like the notoriety of intelligence more than actually having tobeintelligent.It was culture as class performance, literature fetishised for its ability to take educated people on false emotional journeys, so that they might afterwards feel superior to the uneducated people whose emotional journeys they liked to read about.It becomes an act of superiority to state you’ve read a book or have a stern opinion on a political topic, which, actually having a working knowledge of these and caring about them does give Marianne an easy “in” with this culture and luckily Rooney spares the reader an impression of C & M as authentic and the rest as Salinger “phoneys”. It’s implied, but handled well.While Rooney occasionally dips into caricatures of college-types for minor characters, her primary characters are nuanced and complex in a way that, by the end of the book, you feel you shared your time with real people. Both Marianne and Connell are problematic at times--especially Connell and his sexual hangups or his impressions of Marianne as “damaged”--but Rooney invests emotional insights into them that grants them a real sense of authenticity. Unlike the first person narration ofConversations,Normal Peopleis told from a very unaffected third-person omniscient perspective that refrains from making judgements on the characters. You see their faults and their inner-justifications or griefs but the reader is left on their own to decide what to make of them. There are times when either character will disgust or frustrate you, and others when you really feel for them. Like life, nothing caught in a social web is simple. As the novel progresses, so does the insight into their emotional well-being, which reaches a climax of sorts when Connell is having suicidal thoughts and Marianne feels insignificant in the world. Luckily, Rooney handles these topics with grace that captures the feelings of depression without glorifying them or using them merely as a plot device. Similarly is Marianne’s homelife, with a now-dead abusive father, an all-but-absent mother and a weak yet abusive older brother who takes out his anger on her. The way these elements shape a person is done quite well--aside from some of Rooney’s presentation of sexual dominance to be discussed shortly--and the impact that people have on each other’s growth and identity is shown as both a sadness and a joy throughout the novel.‘That’s money, the substance that makes the world real. There’s something so corrupt and sexy about it.’It is easy to get invested in the non-relationship of Marianne and Connell, which really pulls the novel forward through authentic raw emotion, but what really makes the novel work is the ways their relationship, and sex, becomes an avenue to examine power dynamics. What is particularly interesting about Marianne and Connell are their particular social classes and how these shape the way they interact with their world.He and Marianne never talked about money. They had never talked, for example, about the fact that her mother paid his mother money to scrub their floors and hang their laundry, or about the fact that this money circulated indirectly to Connell, who spent it, as often as not, on Marianne.While the two rarely discuss money, the influences of late capitalism are very much a part of their identities. Marianne stays on in Dublin and never has to work whereas Connell spends his weekends back home working in a garage and he is looked down upon at Trinity by his peers due to his working class status. It even causes a “breakup” between him and Marianne after their first year when his pride in not asking her to stay at her place since he cannot afford rent is seen by her as him wanting to go home to see other people and disguising it as not having the money to stay in Dublin for the summer. To her the idea of simply not being able to pay rent seems like an aberration from reality. When they are both awarded a scholarship, Connell is irked that for him it is a necessity to fund school but for Marianne it is just a status symbol (and her being awarded the money means a student who actually needed it was denied the money). It is then pointed out to Connell that he is accepting being served dinner at the award ceremony by his own working class peers, essentially throwing guilt back at him as a working-class traitor. This is a typical knee-jerk reaction of a dominant class, repositioning guilt to create in-fighting within the subordinate classes as the dominant class continues on unimpeded.Guilt manifests itself in many ways throughout the novel. Self-doubt and shame enter into many of the characters in the later portion of the novel and there is even a suicide of a character Connell remembers most as someone who built their personality out of trying to be accepted by others. The social posturing and societal guilt that drives it becomes toxic at a point. Most pronounced is Marianne’s self-guilt and the ways her history of trauma still keeps her in it’s grasp:Denise decided a long time ago that it is acceptable for men to use aggression towards Marianne as a way of expressing themselves. As a child, Marianne resisted, but now she simply detaches, as if it isn't of any interest to her, which in a way it isn't. Denise considers this a symptom of her daughter's frigid and unlovable personality. She believes Marianne lacks 'warmth', by which she means the ability to beg for love from people who hate her.Central to the novel are the sexual growth and identities of Marianne, which Rooney has pegged as a deviant, and Connell who is motivated by privacy, shame and supposed normalcy. Connell views sex as a very private act--he is very flustered when Peggy suggests a threesome with Marianne and Connell--and forces his and Marianne’s relationship to be secret in fear of other’s thinking him abnormal for being with her. He is bothered by her desires for submission and thinks of himself as better than being able to go along with them. As sex is often a metaphor for capitalism in the book, Connell is attempting to be “ethical”, but it is also an issue that he consistently views her prior history and sexuality as constituting abnormality and being “damaged” (as he often puts it). There is a sense of the classic Catholic guilt at play and his revulsion towards her wishes to be hit puts a wedge between them.‘Is the world such an evil place, that love should be indistinguishable from the basest and most abusive forms of violence?’Marianne, as mentioned earlier, tends towards a more devil-may-care attitude towards sex and has a preference for being abused. A major criticism of the book are the ways that submissive preference and being damaged are overly entangled. Using sex as a critique of capitalism, the submissive behavior and those who eagerly dominate over her is an insightful examination of power dynamics, but I do concede the argument that it minimizes the possibility of an aggressive sexual relationship founded on love and mutual understanding instead of only being an avenue for abuse and actual sadists like all the examples in the novel. Moving on. Under capitalism, the female body is inevitably commodified and her dominators tend to see her more as an object to control rather than an equal partner. Her boyfriends are all abusers of power: the first is hosting a fascist to speak on campus, the second is the son of a banker central to causing the economic collapse in Ireland (he also tells stories about his friends working in the US banking industry as if the housing bubble collapse is funny anecdote), and the third is an artist who enjoys photographing torture. It is best stated when the Swedish artist coerces Marianne into being tied up more, ignoring her pleas to stop by telling her he knows she’ll do it because she loves him and he loves her. She wonders ‘Could he really do the gruesome things he does to her and believe at the same time he’s acting out of love?’The need to possess her and abuse her is mirrored in the social class aspects of the novel. While the likely-sociopathic Jamie does not physically abuse her outside of bed, his emotional abuse is far worse--much like the way the wealthy class gaslights the lower classes into remaining submissive. Unfortunately, Rooney’s answer to the sexual questions raised by the book are a bit of a let-down compromise that gives masculinity unnecessary applause. At two pivotal moments in the book, Connell stands up to an abuser--one in high school when she is groped and the other at the end when her nose has been broken--by swooping in through a display of being more masculine than the abuser. It feels overly traditional, much like the sexual roles, in a novel that would be better served by pushing limits. The sexual compromise of the two at the end, with Marianne basically submitting to his love and masculinity, feels like a cop-out for an ending that is already far too tidy than it need be.Despite this, the novel registers as a success overall. Rooney leaves the novel on a note of uncertainty, a similar tone that fueled the infectious nature of the novel, which makes up for the overly tidy emotional climax and resolution. It seems inevitable that there will be a miniseries of this with Ed Sheeran's Castles on the Hill blasting over a montage of Connell and Marianne--this idea almost makes me want to drop a star, though I won't--and while this work is imperfect it achieves what it sets out to do and I very much enjoyed reading it. I couldn't put it down to be honest. These characters are easy to care for, the story is engrossing and the undercurrents of themes and social criticisms are well executed. This novel is a serious dose of early romance nostalgia that doesn’t sugar coat anything. The imperfections and complexities of love and identity are what makes this novel function at its best and I will be eagerly awaiting her next book.4.5/5Her eyes fill up with tears again and she closes them. Even in memory she will find this moment unbearably intense, and she's aware of this now, while it's happening. She has never believed herself fit to be loved by any person. But now she has a new life, of which this is the first moment, and even after many years have passed she will still think: Yes, that was it, the beginning of my life.