This book should have been titled, Pack Up Your Heart. Because, this book will grab your heart, twist it, jump on it, drag it through the mud, and have you begging for more. Oh this book. Oh my heart. Seriously though, this book wrecked me in the best way. I read this book in a day and a half because…I COULD NOT PUT IT DOWN! I was consumed by this book and by the love that Lauren and Joshua shared.I should preface this review by admitting that I love books and movies that are tearjerkers. I am drawn to character driven stories that deal with grief and the process of working through it. I love being so vested in characters that I feel their pain, their anger, their angst and their grief. I loved Stepmother, Terms of Endearment and Steel Magnolias (My daughter’s name is Shelby, so…) As much as the book deals with death and grief, it is also heartwarming, endearing, and full of love and healing.After Joshua and Lauren are newly married, they find out that Lauren has a fatal disease, IPF, which causes fibrous material to grow in her lungs and make breathing difficult. These two are the kind of couple everyone is jealous of – so in love. Joshua is a medical device inventor and turns his life work into finding a solution for Lauren’s illness. The book is told in alternating voices and timelines – but that does not make it confusing. It serves to show Lauren’s thoughts before her death, and Josh’s life and struggle after her death. Although her illness makes it seemingly impossible, she finds a way to live the best life possible with the love of her life. The beginning line is her writing a letter to her deceased father in which she says,“People carry a terminal diagnosis differently. I wanted to ride on its back like it’s a racehorse, Dad. I think I have. I can’t say that being sick is the greatest thing that ever happened to me, because I’m not an idiot. But it’s an undeniably huge part of my life…and I love my life. More than ever.”In an effort to soften the loss, Lauren writes a letter for each month of the first year she is gone for Josh to read. Each letter includes one task for him to complete. The letters give him a lifeline, a way to hear from her again, and a focus for the month. The tasks lead Josh to step outside of his comfort zone and meet people he might not otherwise have met. He slowly begins the healing process, surrounded by their families and friends.This book is a tearjerker for sure, and it is a beautiful story of love and healing. You will love Lauren and Josh’s love story, you will love their families, you will love their friends, you will love their dog and you will love all of their hearts. I loved this book.Thank you NetGalley and Berkley Pub for sharing an advance copy of this book to read and review.Recommend with no hesitation whatsoever.