***SPOILERS***Meh 20% & then better after, just like in Weir'sSpare Part 1.1st 20%:Meh pacing/characterization/emotion. Awkward romance & S chem that either felt 1-sided &/or disjointed or just lacking. 43yo neighbor logging-owner H's instant change from quiet & distant to suddenly claimy & touchy with 21yo waitress h (after a customer asks her out) after 1 year of quietly showing up at whenever she'd work at the diner was abrupt & weird. It came out of nowhere, regardless of H feeling threatened now that some guy asked her out on a date. It didn't make sense why no other guy had asked attractive h out on a date or flirted with her since there weren't any other diners in town & their small town was frequented by tourists.But the good thing was that h thought H's abrupt change was weird too and brought this up to H repeatedly. And she even kicked him on the balls @ 20% coz she got freaked out by his sudden romantic claims of her & his jealous possessiveness towards her. Now that was funny! But before his sudden claiming of her, the only thing he'd say to her for 1 whole year was his coffee & bear claw order. Nothing else.20% of the book is too long to sustain such romantic awkwardness. It made both characters (especially H) seem off & their romance stilted. One chapter of this awkwardness would've been plenty. Or, at least, show H's POV as already having some romantic thoughts & jealous-possessive feelings towards h. Or even H having interest in getting to know h's person or life even in a secret way. Something other than his disinterest in knowing her aside from her work schedule & that she got home safely. I can see people DNF-ing this book by this time. Just like withThe Spare - Part One, this book wasted pages with its long meandering intro to H&h's initial characters (since they end up changing later) and their H&h's romance.Last 80%:More focused writing. Better romance/rom dev/S chem/char dev/pacing. Average emotion. Liked h's character growth and how she became a mix of domestic/adventurous/spunky/simple. She may be a quiet homebody but she wasn't a doormat. She cared for her parents & opted out of school because she wanted to and not because she was obligated to. Same way she worked long hours as a diner waitress because she liked the work & not because she needed the money.Liked that she called H on his OTT-ness (i.e., steamrolling through her resistances, jealous-possessiveness with other men, seducing her to change her mind) not because she didn't like it but because he changed so much & so abruptly. Liked that her questions were catalysts to make H verbalize his feelings & romantic-change process towards h. She didn't easily trust him, given his abrupt change with her. Yet she wasn't so resistant. It helped in building a believable HEA. It also helped make sense of H's OTT jealous-possessive alpha claim of her. So, he didn't just seem like a creepy middle-aged guy stalking a 21yo gal.H's reasons for not making his romantic interest in h was weak. Their 22-year age gap wasn't even a major issue. He admitted to being attracted to her for the past year so didn't make sense why he didn't ask her out then. Just because she wasn't legally able to drink alcohol @ age 20 seemed like a weak excuse. I didn't like that he still continued casually smexxing available women while already stalking h for 1 year.H became more likable too. He was big & quietly confident alpha leader as the eldest of 7 brothers. Loved how OTT he became with her, with his mantra of "no distance, no space". It was funny when he'd insist on no privacy even when she was peeing and she called him a weirdo for it. Some funny moments for sure. Liked his non-apologetic intensity with her because he was so into her like with no other woman. Loved that he was persistent in winning her over to move in & marry him and would chase after her, when she would try to get some distance from him. Yet he wasn't cruel in his pushiness and he would give her space, when she was serious about it. It was sweet when his feelings would be hurt by her minimizing their affair as just a hookup. Sexual chemistry was awkward at 1st but got better as they understood each other & realized their feelings for each other. Sex scenes were detailed/bareback/hot with 1st scene @ 50% (3 days after he tells her she's his). Enhanced by H's dirty talk.Sexual History:21yo virgin h had 1 BF in high school for a few months before her mom got sick. They made out a few times & went as far as 2nd base (boobs) but she got busy taking care of her mom & he broke up with her. She had no time for dating & opted to waitress at a local diner instead of attending college since she took care of her sick mom until her death last year. In the meantime, she fulfilled her romantic/sexual fantasies with H, whom she'd had a crush on since she was 13yo. She finally agreed to date someone else (an out-of-town customer) but H swooped in their date & told her date to leave.H had 1 GF in high school but they broke up since he went o college. He only had hookups over the years since he wasn't interested enough in any woman he met. Most of his hookups since coming back to their small town were tourists. In the last year since he started secretly following h to & from work for her protection, he continued having sexual hookups mostly from women he met at bars his brothers frequented. His last sexual hookup was with 1 of the bar regulars a few weeks before he declared his intentions to h.