One word for this book.Predictable.I would be completely honest for the sake of being completely honest, but I only tried to read this book for smut. It wasn’t really present in this book, and I don’t really care. A good storyline and good characters can easily be a substitute. But no. Just.... no.There is no “good” storyline and no good characters. The four boys were completely fucking childish and the main character Talia is just so fucking stupid I just want to fucking kill her myself. I’m fucking embarrassed for her. Did she not see that coming? Like, the four shits that bullied her just became her besties after one night, and she isn’t at all getting second doubts? I mean, she did take her time before trusting them, but the time she took was still too fucking short. It was too obvious from the minute with the scene with Mason at the party that they were planning to ruin her.So. Fucking. Dumb. Talia.So fucking dumb.I shouldn’t care, but she should at least make an effort to represent the Hildebrand name. But no. That is not what happened.It wasn’t her fault for being humiliated at the end, but it was her fault for being too fucking naive. Grow some balls, Talia. You seriously thought you’re a Royal now? After one night? Is that not suspicious at all? Thank God I finally finished the book because I cannot stand her fucking mind.Also, this story is so fucking similar to the Rich Boys of Burberry Prep series. I’m not the only one who’s thinking it. Everyone is thinking it. Girl from trailer trash goes to private school. Meets hot asf assholes. Those assholes bully her, make her fall in love. Then throw her into the gutter.Yup.I just started reading book 2, and so far, I’m laughing my ass off. I’m only including this part in my review because I have no energy to write a separate review, and because I’m not finishing the pile of predictable shit that is book 2. Basically, the only thing I’m going to mention here to avoid too many spoilers is that Talia is going for revenge, and that she is digging some shit about the four assholes. But her research skills about rich, elitist men that have empires are quite lacking. Her platform: Google. I mean, if dark shit about billionaires can easily be found in the open web, shouldn’t the FBI be pounding on their doorstep by now?I only started reading book 2 because of the blurb. I hated book 1 because Talia fucking embarrasses me and the whole society of women, but when I saw the blurb for book 2, the one with the “mysterious ally,” I just thought that there would be a fifth addition to her harem. But I don’t think so. I read a couple of reviews that may have suggested otherwise. So I stopped.Overall:Cole, Mason, Finn, and Elijah are too similar to each other. They may have different interests, like how Elijah likes his music and Finn likes his football, but their personalities and the way they talk are too fucking the same. Just the usual hot-but-cool-and-swagger type of guy, with a sprinkle of “assholiness.” And Talia is just the same as other high school bully romance main characters out there. Doesn’t matter if they’re bad. They’re handsome and gorgeous, so why not? You could have at least played hard-to-get. But you were just too fucking easy.How did I feel after reading this book?: I feel ashamed I even read it. I didn’t even hope for the book to get better because I already knew how it would end since the beginning. Like I said, too fucking predictable.Was the book life altering?: Hell yeah it was. I have learned, after reading this book, not to be overly eager when my bully proposes to be besties just right after insulting them.Will I share this to my local peers?: No.And the girl-on-girl rivalry with the.... fuck I forgot her name already. Oh yeah, Adena. Adena was also sort of vanilla. And when I say vanilla, I mean she is sooo very typical. In every high school bully romance reverse harems, there is always that ONE GIRL who is a slut for the boys and will do anything to bring down the MC. Let me just say that Adena fit all of those qualities, except she had nothing special to offer. Reading this book was like reading every other RH high school bully romances I have ever read for the second time.Also, there’s Leah. Leah was there for Talia when Talia had nobody, and when the princes became besties with Talia, Leah was practically left in the dirt. Doesn’t matter how Talia felt. Sorries don’t fix broken plates. Another reason why I hate Talia so much was because she wasn’t at all suspicious at the boys’ sudden change of heart. And that left Leah and her separated.After the grand finale at the end, I just could not stand all the self-pitying shit that I skimmed through it. If I took a shot for every time Talia said something like “how could I have not seen that?” like the dumb shit she is, I would have died because my liver could not take it. Seriously, it could go for pages and pages with her self-pitying herself, and let me tell you, authors, that it does not change our perspective on the characters. Once a dumb bitch, always a dumb bitch. It would have been fine if she just admitted to her “mistakes,” but please don’t make entire monologues after it. It’s a complete fucking eyesore.I would not be finishing book 2. I stopped after 5% through it. I’m in chapter three and I give up. I suddenly remembered I don’t want to waste my quarantine reading about girls romanticizing her tormentors.Peace. Out.