Okay, so this was a good book. Or at least up until the last 15%, cause that's when everything went downhill in my opinion.So the FMC and the MMC engaged in a fake marriage, until it wasn't fake anymore and real feelings were involved. They had both fallen for each other.But the FMC discovers the truth that the MMC so desperately tries to hide. That he is the one that "made" her Ex cheat on her which led to her losing all faith in men and her heart never healed from that. This is the part that annoys the hel outta me.I loved the chemistry between these two characters and loved how their relationship developed. So when the MMC invited the FMC to a charity, who could have known that all our dreams would be ruined, like literary. So the MMC kept saying throughout the book that he did something and is the reason to why the FMC and his stepbrothers relationship (the Ex) ended. And it was reveled that the Ex cheated, so it didn't take to much to put two and two together and it didn't take much to figure out that he probably orchestrated the cheating, which he actually did. But here is what that pisses me off. So the MMC orchestrated the cheating by sending a girl to seduce the Ex on a party, he ends up in bed with this girl who he also invited to bed. The FMC walks in on them while he is ramming himself into the girl. The MMC gets blamed for everything, and the only thing he did was send a girl to the Ex, now he didn't put the Ex:s d*ck into the girl, so I don't understand why everyone is so upset with the MMC. Later on the Ex comes running (and drunk) to find out that the FMC and the MMC slept together, which makes him run to his car and later on gets him in a fatal accident which leaves him paralyzed.When the FMC finds out she explains that the accident itself wasn't the MMCs fault, but she was blaming him for the cheating that caused her heart to shatter. Mind you that this happened 7 years ago, and she is still "ruined" because of her Ex:s cheating. Naaaaah! I just feel like the author just hastly threw this together at the end to give us some drama. In my eyes, I felt like this event just ruined the whole story. It made me severely dislike the FMC, cause I just had to play the devils advocate so I ended up as team MMC. The MMC went after what he wanted, was it a shitty way? YES! But he wasn't the disloyal boyfriend who cheated. Let's not forget when the FMC was almost raped and the MMC saved her, where was the Ex? Probably getting his d*ck wet. So in my opinion, the MMC got so much shit for something that wasn't even technically his fault. This lead to the world knowing about the "fake" marriage between them, that stoped being fake a long time ago... And the FMC asking for divorce, which the MMC granted.So I'm giving this story 3/5 stars, cause unfortunately those last 15% ruined this story for me. It was predictable and obviously at some point the FMC would know the truth, but I feel like the author could have done it in a better way. I felt like it was unnecessary that the entire world got involved, including the FMCs parents that only gave a f*ck about their reputation and nothing else.And lastly, I missed an epilogue!!! I wanted to know what happened in the future. How did the two go back to where they were? How did people around them react to it. What happened to the FMCs parents, and mainly sister, and her friends? Did they stay in New Zeeland or move back to India? I have so many questions....!!!!