Quick and easy read. Not really any smut, but good story! Secret pregnancy and second chance at love.Didn’t love the end, I think it could have told more of how their family develops in an epilogue or something cause I have so many more questions.Recap:Cora (Tink) is a former hockey star but now a mother of a 4 year old little boy and a nurse in Minnesota. She has had lots of struggles in those 4 years, her bestie/love since they were 3 had sex with her then ghosted her after being scared and became and asshole when she tried to tell him about the baby. Then her parents threw her out while pregnant, then her ex-best friend/love mom, who was like her real mom after all the years, ignored her when she saw their son and didn’t tell a soul. Her grammie took her in but died from cancer quickly so she moved to start fresh. Cora never thought she would see her ex bestie again bc he always wanted the warm weather and she loved the cold winters like back home in Boston. When the head nurse announces there is a 3 VIP hockey injuries coming in she knows Cora can handle the chaos and out she in charge. When she sees the most injured and last patient she realizes it’s her ex bestie but composes herself quickly. Shaw is a pro hockey player new to the Minnesota Raptors after a horrible time in Florida l, but he has a bad cut on his leg, bad concussion and had surgery on his spleen. After years of being around hockey and her stepdad coach she is able to calm situations and the loud waiting room with ease. She even puts one of the meanest looking players in his place easily. When she is done she shift she feels she must go check on him incase and thankfully she is able to stop a punk male nurse trying to exploit him with pictures while he’s unconscious. She breaks his phone and he punches her in the face. We later learn he was trying to settle a gambling debt with the Russian mob. Shaw wakes up and can’t believe he is seeing Cora after these 4 years and his biggest mistake of hurting her. He will do anything to get her back. The team coach is impressed with her abilities and gets her and one other nurse to alternate night and day shift only for their players…that means caring for Shaw when she doesn’t want anything to do with him…or he might find out about their son Noah. During this time his parents visit and it’s clear there is tension with his mom and his dad is clueless, Shaw is just trying to get Cora to talk to him so he can apologize but every time he’s cut off or ignored, she doesn’t want to hear it. She meets another player at a run down rink that he’s interested in buying and their kids hit it off and Blaine ends up putting two and two together of who Noah’s dad is. Once he’s released from the hospital she has a few days off and takes her son ice skating again but Blaine sets her up and right when Shaw sees him he knows it’s his kid. She is pissed but now has to navigate this bs, he instantly falls for his son. All the years trying to fill the hole losing Cora left and he feels it start to stitch, and maybe get her back too. He promises he just wants to know his son but she is scared and thankfully she is starting to talk to her real dad again and asks for help. They form a custody plan and the truth about his mom knowing comes out, Cora doesn’t allow her to know Noah, she is still furious but doesn’t stop his dad, well with stipulations. They are starting to earn trust and get comfortable together, he even convinced her that a house is safer and his missed 4 years of child support earned it. Then pictures of Noah and her being watched show up anonymously at her door. She freaks and they hide at Blaine’s house in a gated community and bumps up the moving date for the new house. When she is packing someone breaks into her old apt, it’s the crazy nurse she stopped from taking pictures of Shaw, he owes a debt to the Russian mob and those pics were is cash out, now he will sell her, and her son who he shows her on his phone are being held at gun point at her dads. Thankfully they don’t pay attention and Cora is able to text Shaw 911 save Noah, the Raptors organization rally’s and gets the cops there to save them. Then they get a special ops team to locate Cora and kill the bad guys and save her. Shaw thought he lost her again and forever and nothing is more clear this is his family and he loves them forever and will do anything to keep them safe. HEA