I wanted to like it but this book skeeved me out.Conceptually it's all over the place, mostly because the female lead couldn't keep to a single thought or course of action if her life depended on it. I literally got sick to death of her saying how hot he was and how she couldn't resist him but supposedly hates him and I was only at 53% at that point. She has multiple opportunities to run away from him and yet she's doesn't and then she's whining about not being a good enough sexual partner after he practically assaulted her in the woods. And no, I guess it wasn't actually an assault because she "just couldn't help it, and he's so hot, she had to have him," even though she's a virgin, really? (Cue the eye roll.) She just can't stick to anything -- she's all over the place. The whole thing just grossed me out with how completely pathetic she was and what an utter creep he was.I thought she was weak and whiny and was back and forth, talking about wanting to impress him or wondering if she was a terrible shag, only minutes after sobbing and crying about him locking her away and only hours after thinking to herself she didn't like him much after he threatened to hurt her if she didn't obey like a good little dog. I'm literally getting whiplash from the back and forth in this character that can't hold a constant thought and had no consistency in her thoughts or inner monologues.She's a complete hypocrite besides being a libido-driven moron -- and, who shows up to rescue her foster siblings in platform sneakers with no bra on, seriously? It was such a freakishly stupid thing to dress in (seeing as how it doesn't seem to be her normal style she's only doing it because he bought her all these designer labels) especially after saying she needed to look presentable but not be over the top -- I think going around braless in a skintight shirt with platform sneakers is more than a bit over the top. Maybe that's one of the things that set me off because I hate hypocrisy and this book was full of it: she hates him because he didn't keep his promise to her and then she doesn't keep her promise to the girls; they all hate uncle Ron because he's a pedophile and a sexual creep but then again Aiden is a sexual creep too, he's just not a pedophile; she whines and cries about hating him for leaving her, for kidnapping her, for holding her against her will, and threatening to punish her, and then his panting after him and throwing herself at him, undressing him two minutes after sobbing about how terrible he is.Let's cover Aiden being a creep for a second: he's supposed to be a virgin too, but on only his second sexual encounter with her he's wanting to rough her up like some rape fetishist and choke her out and slap her around, really? He's going down on her without fumbling and getting her off like some sort of gigolo and wanting to do anal as if he's some sort of a sexual prodigy even though he's a virgin? I just didn't buy any of the sexual scenes it was just gross and creepy if he's got such weird kinks right off the bat and he has zero experience -- and it just didn't jive with the whole romantic notion of waiting to have sex until he was with her. Then there's the whole issue of how he's supposed to have waited on her like some sort of romantic and yet he's calling her a slut? Yeah, I was totally done with the book at that point.So no, no recommendation on this one, besides the conceptual nightmare the female lead became for me, this book had a seriously childish feel to it that I just couldn't get past and it left me feeling like all their inner monologues were just a bunch of excuses and rationalizations, like this was written by a teenager who hasn't gotten past the boy-crazy faze and has no real idea what's sexy or romantic, because this was neither.