ARC provided by publisher through NetGalley. All opinions are my own.DNF'd at 63%. I was only continuing because I thought maybe the main couple would get their just deserts, but the longer I read, the clearer it became that that was not going to be what happened.I'm so disappointed by this book! I have enjoyed the Suzanne Enoch books I have read before (particularly the first two Wild Wicked Highlander books) and I enjoyed this book for maybe the first chapter. And then I quickly soured on the couple.Emmeline and William Pershing are in a marriage of convenience that she proposed eight years ago in order to secure her inheritance. Her inheritance of her childhood home is dependent on her being the first to marry in her generation. This set up feels very Enoch, high concept, you just kind of have to go with it. There are hints that William feels more for Emmeline than she does for him pretty early, though God knows why. Another condition of the inheritance is that in order to stay in home longer than five years, they need to have a child. They cannot do this because Emmeline is infertile. She tells William that her grandfather waived the condition and they remain in the home.Only he didn't waive it. Emmeline instead invented two young children for her and William, that somehow, her family has never met or wanted to meet.Emmeline is one of the worst characters in a romance that I have ever been encouraged to like by the narrative. And I love unlikable heroines! It's kind of my thing. I don't even necessarily take issue with the premise--I knew all of those when I volunteered for the ARC. I imagined that William and Emmeline would strike an equitable deal with some plucky orphans and antics would ensue. And I think that might be how Enoch would characterize what happens.But instead what we get is the couple having very little insight into the absurdity of what they are doing. First they try to convince some family friends to let them borrow their children for a vacation without their parents. These friends rightly point out that that is so weird and inappropriate.Emmeline and William laugh it off and realize, oh yes, it was quite inappropriate to do that to their peer's children. So instead of looking inward and thinking "let's stop and think about this scheme," they immediately go to a tenant farmer with a dozen children and ask for two of them. Again the farmer, rightly, points out that this is SO WEIRD. Emmeline and William attempt to buy him off and he refuses.Again, perhaps a time for the couple to look inward and think "what if we stopped be so creepy about this." At this point, I thought maybe the plot could be saved by children volunteering for the role. Maybe they meet enterprising unhoused children who need the Pershings as much as the Pershings need them.Nope! The Pershings then think wistfully "oh if only there was a shop for children!" Ah ha! An orphanage. They go to a convent orphanage and offer to "borrow" George and Rose Fletcher. The nuns insist again that this is kind of weird behavior. But George and Rose are little hellions, I guess. So the nuns are happy to pass them off to the toffs.Then the Pygmalion plot proceeds where the Pershings attempt to train George and Rose into being stand-ins for their non-existent children. It takes forever for the couple to come clean to the children about the plan. They lament the lack of trust the children place in them, all while fully intending of sending them back for the majority of the book.Pygmalion is already kind of a touchy, hard to do well plot. But Eliza Doolittle knows what she wants out of the deal! And she can leave at any time, even if means returning to selling flowers on the street. The Pershings effectively traffic these two young children, with very little plan of what they are going to do with them after their needs are served. They are also constantly shifting their lies of just who the children are, so there isn't even much of a mystery that they are going to be found out.This is not even mentioning the arrival of the children's brother, who was so simultaneously unnecessary and revealed Emmeline's judgmental nature even more. Good heavens! A FELON in our midst. He's not upstanding like my husband, whose main political goal is "build one road in Africa," that is mentioned at the beginning of the book and then never comes back up.If this doesn't sound like a romance, it is because there isn't much romance!There are vague references to Emmeline and William's wedding night that didn't go well. He was too eager or something and it freaked her out. But then they keep sharing a bed for seven more months, until she is declared infertile. A hero, even a young one at 20, who sleeps with his wife for seven months, while she is so scared that they recede to calling each other by their last names, is not a very sympathetic hero! And it is not really addressed! Also it is unclear through out if they have been celibate the past eight years or not. There's a reference to him giving her "advanced notice" of bedsharing, but then she also turns into a puddle when he holds her hand for a split second too long.There could have been a POV of William's thoughts, explaining an over eagerness for someone who he has been pining for years that frightens her away. I really thought this would be a dual timeline romance when I first started, given the references to their early marital bed. Like what possibly happened to scare Emmeline so badly! But not so badly that William continues to sleep with her for seven months and it wasn't assault? Because we're supposed to like William! But Enoch is pretty uninterested in that aspect of their relationship. To be fair, I guess, I didn't finish the book. But I did read other reviews because I was so confused by the lack of romance and it confirmed "no sex, very little romance."Other things that annoyed me: the way the servants speak about Emmeline. No one in-universe seemed to realize how absurd or cruel her behavior was toward the children. They all think of her as their perfect mistress and they are willing to participate in the ruse, no matter how ridiculous it is or how harmful it might be toward George and Rose. Also, Emmeline uses the g-slur. I really don't give a wit about historical accuracy when it comes to that. Romance has such a problem how it uses Roma people. I can wince at something like Kleypas' Hathaways, where I really think she was trying to do ill-conceived representation. Also they were published 15 years ago! Kleypas at least attempts to do "exploration of culture," however ultimately fetishizing. It makes me like those books less, but not write her off as author totally. But to just drop a slur! Something that could so easily have been excised. It makes me annoyed with Enoch as a whole.