SALE ALERT OMG THIS IS AMAZING REGULAR PRICE $7.99 AND IS ONLY $1.99 RIGHT NOW SAY WHAT???AMAZON PURCHASE LINK:http://www.amazon.com/dp/B00P42WQF6/r...5***I need this Sexy lawyer ~ StarsGenre:Contemporary RomanceType:Standalone book 2 of The Legal Briefs seriesPOV:First Person – MaleThis book starts off with Jake Becker’s POV; in all honestly this is my very first MALE pov book so I was not sure if I was going to like it. So as I read I was waiting for the heroine’s pov but it never came and it was not needed because this book was so well written I was able to get a full ride without both pov’s.Jake Becker;a thirty year old criminal defense attorney; sexy, with tattoos under his business suit seems to have his life all put together. A total bad boy when it comes to girls and relationships. As a lawyer; he had no time for love and family, all he cared about was his job and random one night stands. He had a routine and didn’t consider himself a family man and didn’t have time to handle all the drama that comes with it. However; things changes for Jake very quickly when a “one night stand” shows up in his office stating that she might have spread a sexual transmitted disease to him. He freaked out and it was kind of like an eye opener. Jake decided to perhaps give dating a try and not just one night stands. I meet his friends the “gang” that were extremely supported and funny; and now I want to know more about them.Chelsea McQuaidat only twenty-six years of age; had to change her life around in a blink of an eye. Overnight her life came crashing down after an awful accident that left her to care for her six nephews and nieces. It was definitely a challenge but she never thought twice about taking the responsibility. She knew very well that she wall all these kids had and she was going to be there for them. I really liked her courage and how human she was having to deal with the death of her brother and grief; and then having to be strong for all the little ones watching and depending on her.Jake and Chelseaended up meeting each other through one of the children. They are all going through a hard time and trying to figure out how to deal with their grief. Jake ends up spending more time with the kids and Chelsea. Little by little his heart starts getting soft without him even knowing. He protected and defended the kids like they were his own and I absolutely loved it.“There’s no monsters, Regan.” In real life there are, but not in this house. Not while I’m breathing. “I’ve got you, kiddo. You’re safe. Shhh…go to sleep.” JakeHe was instantly attracted to Chelsea of course his man side turned on immediately but it was much more than that and he promised himself to try to see if the dating would work out. However; he was so afraid to accept the feelings he was having. They both gave in and just let it be and made it work for the both of them. He was fantastic with Chelsea, he defiantly showed her a good time.He made me cry yes I was mad at him for not accepting that sometimes you just have to let it be. I was also sad for him for everything he was doing and feeling. I just fell head over heels for him, totally bad ass. Jake and Chelsea relationship worked for both no strings attached and both working with the kids. I loved their relationship; I loved all the kids it was just so hard not to. There were so many funny parts on this book I was dying laughing. There was some angst it had me devastated and of course some heartache. But overall there was just so much heart and soul on this story; I loved everything about it. How Jake was able to grow over his fear of responsibility and be a family and support for all the kids. The kids were absolutely well “kids” wild, chaos, funny and I loved them. This book was so much more than what I was expecting; it was my very first Emma Chase book and I can tell you it would not be my last. I would recommend this book to anyone looking for funny read packed with emotions, and most definitely a sexy hero that is worth keeping.“Something inside me crumbles; I want her-this fearless, stunning woman. And I want the kids. Those perfect, awful, amazing children…But even more than that, I want to deserve them. To be worthy.” Jake"ARC kindly provided to me by Author via netgalley, in exchange for an honest review." Thank you so much.*****BR WITH MY SHHLUT WAR*****Book Series Order: Can be read as StandaloneAMAZON PRE-ORDER LINKFor more reviews/reveals/giveaways visit: