Mia and her two besties, Harlow & Lola just graduated college and are off to Vegas to let loose & celebrate. But Mia's not the type of girl to just let it all go. Too much has happened in her past and the weight of the future she doesn't want to allow her to free, until she meets him.Ansel is spending the last few days in Vegas before he has to head back to Paris and to his job as an attorney, one that does allow him much time for much else. Seeing Mia from across the crowded club, then knocking at his door was all it took to get this boy hooked.Mia finds herself completely at ease in his presence, the stuttering is non-existent - she can talk to him and tell him things that she never thought she'd say out loud, especially to a perfect stranger. When she decides to be bold and for one night be the girl that would never let a chance with a guy like this slip away, she discovers that she ends up with far more than she ever imagined.One drunken night in Vegas turns into so much more. She knows the responsible thing to do would be to go home, prepare for the life she knows she doesn't want - but the idea of summer in Paris with Ansel, what girl could say no to that?"I want to love all my life as much as I love this night."Sweet Filthy Boy was everything I wanted it to be. After coming of the success of the Beautiful Series I wasn't certain as to what to expect with their new series. But everything that I loved about their style was here. The trifecta of perfection, characters you love, a story that makes you swoon and writers that can make you laugh."I'll be honest, from the looks of my mouth, I sucked dick for a long time last night."The way this duo writes these stories just amazes me. They hit the mark every time. The banter between the characters, the way the story line always remains clear - it just amazes me that this book, their stories come from two separate minds."You just implied you're banging me tonight."His grin gets bigger as his hands snake around my waist.Play your cards right.""I forgot my cards."His smile wilts dramatically."But I did bring my penis.""I'll try not to break it this time.""In fact, I think you should try your hardest."There was a perfect balance to the lighthearted humor and the developing love story. The kind of love story where the characters have to work their way backwards from where they start to where they end. Falling in love with the idea of each other, without knowing one another. But knowing that the instant chemistry and the desire they feel is every bit real."With Ansel, I feel like my heartbeat is chasing his. I want to leave my fingerprints all over his neck and his lips. I want to suck on his skin, to see if it's as warm as it looks, and decide if I like what he was drinking by tasting it on his tongue. I want to have an entire conversation with him where I don't second-guess or struggle with a single word, and I want to take him back to the room with me and not use any words at all."There was always this tone of a much deeper story lingering just beneath the surface. There was humor, there was sizzling play time scenes and even some heartfelt moments - but there was a bigger picture of realizing what you really want in life and not being afraid to take it. Sometimes people find that path on their own, but sometimes it takes just finding the right person to show it to you."Life is built of these little horrible moments and the giant expanses of awesome in between."