Reread 22/1/2022 - 4.5 starsHad to brush up on past drama because the author hit publish early and I needed to prepare myself by the time the next book goes live on kindle. Since the paperback for The Broken One is live now, I'm hoping the ebook is available pretty soon🤞🏻🤞🏻🤞🏻Read 31/10/2021 - 4.5 starsThis review probably won't have much structure and is basically going to be all over the place. Because I F-ING LOVE THIS BOOK AND WILL NEVER GET OVER IT.People who've been with the entire Stealth Ops series or even AJ and Ana's book know how Savanna is and how her future seemed bleak with Marcus passing away. And how dear she is to every man on Marcus' team, especially AJ. I'm so glad she finally got her HEA. So damn glad.It's very tough to perfectly execute the dead-ex trope. I, myself don't go for these books because why would I want that pain and someone who will always be second best? So when Brittney Sahin does this trope in a way that doesn't feel like a consolation prize, you know she's good.Let's talk about Savanna. I love this woman. She has had to face the loss of her husband in the worst way possible. While she's genuinely caring, forgiving and kind, she is also feisty, smart and sexy. Doesn't lack a backbone but is also reasonable. All romance lovers will adore her because she loves her HEAs and romance novels just as much as us."Dirty handprints on my windows- that's one thing, but manhandle my romance novels and you're looking for a fight""Fictional boyfriends were where it was for now"Same, girl, same.Savanna was not only able to keep up with all the testosterone-fueled men, but she also gave valuable inputs. She didn't throw bitch-fits or act entitled.Griffin *swoon*. My growly Griffin. My man has arm porn in spades! This man was sex personified. But he's not a dick. I liked his thought process and how honourable he was. He was a good operator as well. Therewasone time that I wanted to hit him on his head but his reasons seemed valid from his viewpoint.The chemistry. The fucking CHEMISTRY Savanna and Griffin had, was wild. Seriously. The sexual tension and chemistry between these two was so palpable, I was afraid my Kindle was going to spontaneously combust. Ever since they first saw each other, there was a thread of connection neither could deny. And I as a reader could feel that."Relaxing isn't the word I would use to describe sex""He wanted to eat her right the fuck up, starting right between her thighs"Umm, did I also mention how I had to take breaks while reading this book?I loved jealous and possessive Griffin. That was fun to watch. I also loved how he made Savanna feel.She just wanted to be here in the moment with this man. A man that made her feel like he was a book boyfriend come to life."Griff had major trust issues because of something that happened many years back. I'm glad that the author didn't just gloss over those issues and make them go, Poof! Because there's no way something that has been deep-rooted in your psyche for two decades is just going to disappear, at least not in real life. What Sav had with Marcus was never disregarded and none of the MCs made little of it.It was soooo good seeing so many of the old guys back. I wanted to see AJ and Ana together and see what they were upto. When Emilia was mentioned I squealed with joy!!. I wanted to see so much more of her and Sean and catch up with them :(I justknowCarter's book is going to be an emotional ride. I'm excited to watch Gray and a certain someone to try and get along. But more importantly can't wait for Jesse to finally get his head out of his ass!!I took a long time to finish this book. I read almost each chapter twice because I didn't want this book to get over. Oh and also because the smut was fricking hot.If you've been waiting for Savanna to finally get her well deserved HEA, you'll love this book. Because this emotional rollercoaster definitely got me in the feelz."I felt stuck on the same page for the longest time...and then a stranger came into my life and called me Sugar." She closed her eyes. "And the page turned."