⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️''We are homesick most for the places we have never known''Safety warnings:- Cheating (gray area)*- OW/OM drama*- Toxic relationship- Drug abuse- Mention of su*cide- Mention of mental illness/physical abuse/abandonment- Slight taboo factor- Cliffhanger*Explained in the reviewSPOILERS BELOW ⬇️SPOILERS BELOW ⬇️SPOILERS BELOW ⬇️SPOILERS BELOW ⬇️What can I say about this book that will actually be able to capture everything I felt while reading it?I don't think I can truly do it justice and I want everyone to go in blind but if you cannot then read the rest of this review.Lennon moves into a town when she is 9 years old and befriends Claire. They spend the next 8 years being best friends and being very close. Despite Claire's constant bad attitude, Lennon loves her and does everything to keep Claire happy and play nice. She has this need to be nice to everyone and placate them as well. Something Macon (Claire's older brother) hates and always calls her out on. All three of them basically grow up together. However, Macon grows up and does everything to throw away his life, he starts doing drugs, getting into massive trouble etc.The book however should not be taken lightly when it comes to Lennon and Macon's blossoming attraction and eventual ''relationship''. Macon is an absolute asshole and truly is toxic.For one the gray area cheating/OW drama is constant. Macon has an on/off again sexual relationship with his best friend and drug dealer Sam. They go back and forth, and it is basically hinted he has sex with her to give her what she wants and in exchange he gets the drugs she finds via her Senator dipshit of a father. Macon kisses Lennon and touches her and either has touched Sam before or after. It's TOXIC but please remember they are young, and Macon is definitely depressed, hates himself and possibly suicidal.OM Drama: Lennon goes on a few dates with a guy named Eric, they never do anything but a few small kisses, but Macon is a jealous one, so the fact Eric is also a constant around Lennon makes him angry and he demands she not allow Eric to touch her....while he can’t help but get high and allow Sam to touch him.I don't think you are supposed to root for Macon and Lennon in this book - like I have said before and Brit Benson herself says: These two are TOXIC. You root for the future and what can become of these two if Macon can get his shit together.There are a few scenes and revelations that really broke me:1) Lennon admitting that her mother killed herself (she was Bipolar) while her father was on deployment and Lennon found her at 9 years old.2) Macon admitting his father physically abused him and his mother to the point their mother took the kids and ran off. Then his father refused to truly help and had another new family.3) Macon OD's but is saved just in time after Lennon finds him in a drug house basement4) Claire revealing, they made Macon promise when they were young to never allow himself to be friends with Lennon because Lennon was Claire's - which resulted in Macon pushing Lennon away and being an absolute asshole5) The end cliffhangerOne thing that shocked me was how Lennon and Sam found common ground after Macon OD’s and they become friends and start to just feel comfortable in each other’s presence. Neither feels hatred for the other when it comes to Macon. Sam never had feelings for him, nor did she ever truly want him, he was just the constant in her life to get through her horrible life.The end though (wow)To give you a bit more context - Lennon's father and Macon's mother have been having a secret relationship for years and it's revealed. The parents announce they wish to marry, and they do so. They all move into a new house and Macon/Lennon officially become stepsiblings. Nobody knows about their attraction and how they feel....After months of ignoring each other, they have sex at Prom night. He is nowhere to be found the next morning. He leaves her a post-it note saying that he doesn't her to give up on him...She goes home where her father is waiting and basically admits he knows where she was, and she is being moved to London with her Aunt (this was the plan in the summer) but he is pushing for it now. She is distraught and wants to talk to Macon but he is nowhere to be found and she realizes he abandoned her.She believes Claire ratted them out and leaves - hurt by her father and how she is discarded.We get a glimpse of her in London. While she is there, she emails Macon over and over again and he never responds. She finally emails Claire who writes back saying Lennon is being pathetic and Macon is doing so much better without her and doesn't want her. She prompts Lennon to BLOCK everyone and starts to self-destruct (but we don't see it yet).The last scene is her waking up with a man when her phone rings and it's Claire saying she has to come home.I meanWHAT? We don't know how far into the future the last scene is and why she needs to come home.Two things that were constant in my mind while I was reading this book:1) Claire is the absolute WORST. She is a horrible sister and an even more horrible friend. She wishes her brother would die and never respects Lennon. She's selfish and jealous.2) Macon had a bunch notebooks with drawings he made of Lennon which tells me one thing: He has loved her for a long time, but he isn't good enough for her now so he most likely will sacrifice himself to be better?