YA (really, trust me on this), female empowerment historical action adventure story. Female Charlie's Angels (kind of) in Victorian England. Lots of diversity rep and modern social sensibilities, with a few speeches and all, but hey, with a duke as a love interest just the same and excuses for ball gowns. And not just a duke, but aspy also, and he totally adores our heroine right from the start, before they even interacted, and he totally sees the point of her speeches and is redeemed, and yeah it is that kind of book.The point of the story is well, self insert, material and reading about super-competent girls, and in this case one gets her romance and I expect from the profusion of good looking young males (just wait, young single earl around, you think the author is going to waste him?) and all, there will spin-offs. There is no character growth (well, not that it is needed, Izzy is kind of perfect already right?), and the romance is my least favorite type, where one side of it is basically a trophy which just happens, for no discernible reason (she was keeping her perfectness under wraps) and without much personality.Plot is frankly a mess, a way to insert as many tropes, even one I hateoh no, just one bedand throw our main characters together as much as possible. The agency makes no sense, financial or not, the duke is a duke but he seems to be much more vulnerable to plot events than his position would imply, and is very "disconnected" somehow, and timelines are sketchywhat the evil guy is successfully gaslighting his wife in two weeks till the servant is suspicious? Two weeks and the woman is doubting her sanity already?, people jump to correct conclusions to move plot along, and it is all just propelled along unconvincingly as some kind of competence heroic teen girl fantasy.Lots of diversity representation, but in a way that feels almost checklist, sometimes all spelled out even if it does not make sensetwo girls smooching in a corner at a ball, and that after we see them already snuggling in another scene before. I mean it is a ball where people can burst in, would they really? Or a blackmailed gay man explicitly explaining that to our narrator, just to make sure the reader gets itbut those are just marginal characters, not the characters which get their story told, or do things. Exception maybe, with some more role, a biracial bitchy queen bee, who still felt a bit stereotyped. You know those instagram posts with bookcovers and arrows pointing at tropes and ingredients to sell books? This felt almost as if it were written to be marketed like that - tropes and tropes and ingredients, all thrown together and blended.I heard to the audiobook, narrated by Harrie Dobby who did it very pleasantly - her natural voice is light and girly, so I thought her male voices were a bit laringitis, as often common with female narrators. But that is natural range, nobody does all kinds of voices perfectly.The writing felt professional, well paced and a good sense of when to put a one liner. I am not touching the rest of the (presumably to follow, if this sells well I guess) series.Me and YA books, right now, we are kind of parting ways.