A fun and cute enemies to friends to lovers story, which made me laugh!The Wedding Gamewas like 'The Great British Bake off' but for DIY, crafty weddings! I love a bit of GBO, and this book was just what I needed to read alongside a darker book!Luna, a crafting queen, convinces her brother and his fiancé Declan to compete on the TV show 'The Wedding Game.' Meanwhile Alec, a cynical divorce lawyer is reluctantly roped in to help support his brother Thad, and his fiancé Naomi win the title. As soon as Luna and Alec meet, they clash, but can they fight their growing attraction?I almost didn't read this gem of a book, as I hadn't enjoyed a previous book byMeghan Quinn, so thanks toThis review by Susannefor making me give this author a second chance! 😘This book was light, fun, sweet and heart-warming, with just the perfect amount of angst to give me the feels. It was genuinely funny, and made me chuckle and snort a few times! Annnd it had a lovely slow burn romance, which developed into some very sexy scenes 🔥Alec aka Chris Evans was the perfect gorgeous, and slightly tortured hero, with a hidden heart of gold, and Luna was just such a warm, loveable character.As much as I loved the romance, I also really enjoyed the other relationships in this book! The wonderful dynamics between Luna and her brother Cohen, and his partner Declan, the slightly shakier relationship between Alec, Thad and Naomi, which developed as the book progressed were awesome! I also loved the friendships! Farrah was one of my favourite characters, she was such a supportive friend to Luna, but was also hilarious! Can she have her own book pleaseMeghan Quinn?! Alec also had a close friendship with his co-worker Lucas, which was touching.I smiled, laughed at Helen's (another contestant) antics, and teared up a few times, but also had to fan myself a couple of times too 😉The only draw back for me, was Alec's brother Thad... Annoying doesn't even cover it! Immature and self obsessed, he didn't even apologise for some really hurtful things which he said to Alec about another family member. I know he had an awful childhood, so had to give him some credit for that, but he made me cringe and bristle! Also, as much as I enjoyed picturing Chris Evans as Alec, that comparison will certainly date the book.If you're looking for a feel good book to make you swoon and laugh,The Wedding Gameis available on KU, and I definitely recommend! 👰🤵👰🤵 Stars!