I was very excited to learn about the writing collaboration between Brittney Sahin and Joseph Cannata. As a reader, Cannata has been a favorite to see grace other book covers and tease with snippets and readings in Sahin’s book world. And Cannata in essence became the Hero Jesse McAdams for me.  He truly breathed life into this very larger than life character.  So to say this was a monumental endeavor for me to watch come to life…well, it was more than I could have hoped for. I wholeheartedly say it’s PERFECTION!Jesse McAdams and Ella Hawkins were the couple we watched dance around the inevitable beginning of their life as a couple.  Jesse was a broken man in every way imaginable.  Partially due to service to his country and partially due to his home life. He never doubted his feelings for his woman, Ella.   He was just too broken to be the man she deserved. And Ella stood by in the wings for years just waiting and biding her time, her chance to be with Jesse.And it seems that they both found solace and comfort in writing their feelings down on paper. Maybe it was therapeutic, maybe venting, maybe hope.  Either way, their journey was absolutely remarkable.  I loved how Jesse slowly allowed his feelings and thoughts to evolve.  He never doubted his feelings, just his worthiness.  I found the way that Jesse ended his letters heartbreaking and hopeful.  Something as simple as his closing of the letters allowed me to see inside the man Jesse was struggling to be.  And my admiration for Ella grew with each letter. Her focus, her hope, her deep love for Jesse allowed her to keep the faith.We also got some insight to situations that led us to present day and the course that was taken to get here. My respect to both Sahin and Cannata for how they grew these characters.  This simply enhanced the story of THE BROKEN ONE. And while Sahin is a master writer and a wordsmith extraordinaire, Cannata delivered writing that left me eager for more.  This should be a beginning to his next story journey.I wish I could give this more than 5 🌟.