The Taken One. Falcon Falls Security: Book 4Grayson Chandler, Army Special Forces. AKA, the Green Berets. A Veteran and Wounded Warrior. He served his country with honor and came away with a prosthetic leg. He may no longer wear a uniform, however he is still fighting. He spends his time working with an assorted group of former military heroes ridding the world of bad guys, sometimes 2 or 3 at a time. When he is not working, he’s fighting with himself over lost opportunities at love.One by one his sister and friends have all found love, including his former girlfriend & current teammate. Yet Gray doesn’t believe he’ll ever find that special someone. After walking away from the one woman who helped him heal, body & soul, completely capturing his heart in the process, he’s given up all hope. Then there she was, 13 years later, still radiant, so beautiful and full of life. And yet once again, circumstances caused him to walk away.Tessa (Contessa) Sloane, the light to Gray’s darkness. She was the PT intern shadowing his therapist during his recovery. Her friendship, humor and ability to drive him crazy made Gray believe in himself again, believe in love. Sadly, he let his demons and the desires of others push her away. Now she is in a foreign country alone, scared, hurt and begging him to help her. How did she end up in a hospital with a slight head injury with no memory of how she got there or what happened to her? Gray has promised to get all her questions answered and keep her safe. But from whom and why?Will he finally stay, to grab hold of this second chance and not let Tessa go this time, or will he continue to let doubt and others influence him?You’ll have to read the book to find out. Not giving away any spoilers.Our first time meeting Grayson Chandler is in Chasing the Knight. He was introduced early as a side character, the brother of the leading heroine. He and his friend Jack were there, just hanging out in a wedding scene and I knew I wanted more. He popped up again at the end, little bites of dialogue filling the space, like he was winking and saying don’t forget me. And that is part of what makes Brittney Sahin’s words so special. She writes compelling military romance stories with plenty of action to keep you on the edge and steamy moments making you falling in love with the main couple. And don’t forget the side characters, the extras. Sometimes they are woven into the story or just casually mentioned and yet the crumbs she drops leaves you wanting and needing more. You can get lost in her world, forget these are not real people and simply escape for a few hours…. or days.I loved Gray & Tessa. And now I’ll go back to waiting patiently for the next book, and the next.