*ARC Given to Blog for Honest Review*5++++“Cielito lindo”“Everyone has a reason.”“5, 4, 3, 2, 1…”“Love don’t die.” “MaMaLu”KissesBeautiful. Poignant. Unique. Unforgettable. For 273 pages,Leylah Attarand all her brilliance, captivated me with each and every word ofThe Paper Swan…I was addicted to every word, every moment was breathtaking and hit every single emotion in a way I don’t think I can ever describe. I’m probably going to run out of positive words that can fully do justice how utterly enthralled I was with this book…it totally blew my mind. I need it to be stated for the record that Leylahbroke mewith this book…it has taken me over three days just to sit down and finally write my review…haven’t touched my kindle…really couldn’t even think about what I wanted to read next because I couldnotstop thinking aboutThe Paper Swan. This is probably one of the biggest book hangovers I have ever experienced. I don’t even know where to begin with my review because I feel like I havesomuch to say and yet all that keeps going through my brain isEveryoneabsolutely must read this book rightnow!!!!Alas…I do need to say more than that…which might end up ina lotof babbling on my part...so here I go!Skye Sedgewick…güerita…this was never her battle to face and yet it always involved her whether she liked it or not. I really liked Skye in the beginning…but of course, the more I got to know her, the more I loved her…loved her strength, her determination, her spirit, her sass…all of it is what kept her going, kept her fighting and ultimately I know it’s what kept her alive. While she may play the part of a spoiled princess very well…Skye is more than just how she was raised. Regardless of how much money her father gives her or the clothes on her back or what luxuries she grew up with…she’s still her mother’s daughter and she will always be a girl who knows what she values…which is more than what money can buy – and that’s what I loved the most about her. Ilovethat Leylah writes such strong heroines because Skye is truly one of my favorites and she’s just one of themanyunforgettable aspects of this book.‘In that moment, I realized that in the end, all the hurts and grudges and excuses are nothing more than floaty apparitions that scatter like pale ghosts in the face of all the people you loved, and all the people who loved you. Because in the end, my life boiled down to three kisses and three faces: my father, my nanny and her son…’Damian Caballero…that’s Dah-me-yahn…yes, even the way he pronounces his name has to be different. Truly…everythingabout Damian is different. He is one of thebestanti-hero’s I’ve ever read…and Isodidn’t want to love him…didn’t know if Icouldlove him at first. The first 10-20% is…rough, he’sreallyeasy to hate…and then I slowly found myself liking him more and more andreallyquestioning my sanity (it was kind of a Caleb/Captive in the Darkthing…which I enjoyed more than I care to admit). Getting his side of the story…understanding his past…that was truly the changing point for me and after that…all bets were off. Also because after that he got more and more amazing and I really didn’t stand a chance. The things he says…uncontrollable out of this world swoon factor – just off the charts…and while his actions in the beginning made me cringe, after 50-60% there were very few things he did that didn’t make me want to climb him like a spider monkey. All I need from Damian is a seashell necklace and I’m a goner…yup, I really am that easy. #SorryNotSorry‘I wanted to pulverize every single memory I had of him. I wanted him to hurt the way I was hurting. I wanted him to sob the way I was sobbing. I wante—Damian grabbed my hands and pinned them behind my back. His lips found mine and he latched on with a hunger that left me breathless. He was an ocean of want and need. All the raging, submerged currents that he’d kept at bay unleashed themselves on me. I tried to keep afloat, clutching at him, but I didn’t stand a chance. My hurt, my anger, my tears were tossed aside by something deeper, something vast and true and powerful and endless.It was a kiss that had sneaked in through an open window, a kiss that lay folded in a paper giraffe, in the silences between5, 4, 3, 2, 1, in the pits of mini mangoes and here, now, at last, it was set free. And therightnessof it, the feeling of longing and belonging, made me want to hold on to it forever. I wanted Damian to keep kissing me, keep kissing, keep kissing, until every other kiss had been erased, untilthiswas the only kiss.’It is going to besoincredibly difficult to talk about this story and not give anything away because every little detail is so tightly entwined with something else and the way it all fits together is so majestically amazing…I wouldn’t want to ruin that for anyone. Suffice it to say…Skye and Damian have a complex relationship…and that’s putting things…lightly. It’s beyond complex…it possibly redefines the word, but for me that’s what made it more intriguing, more compelling, more addictive. Througheverythingthat happens…and trust me, we see the entire gamut of good, bad, ugly…horrible (you get it all and then some), I still had this undercurrent of hope. It's not even one necessary scene or moment that stuck out to me and instilled that feeling in me, but I held on to it from the get go and it's part of what bound me to Skye and Damien. Even through the parts that made me close my eyes and cringe…I was stillsocompulsively into every nuance of what was going on. Maybe it was the mystery aspect…maybe it was because I always had this gut feeling that there was more to it…whatever it was, it worked perfectly for the story line and keeping me 100% engaged. Working through all the…mess that is Damian and Skye is probably what made me enjoy them the most…because once the masks come off and they’retrulythem…no pretenses…no lies…just them…good fucking Lord…I just can’t even. I felteverythingabout these two and my heart just wanted to explode. I wish I could experience those moments again and again because…they’re just stunning.“How do you know that?”“Because you love me.” There. The words were out and I couldn’t take them back. Let him deny what I’d seen in his eyes, what I knew was the truth.Damian tensed, as if holding something in check. I held my breath, waiting for the mask to slip back on. My heart was going to break to the murmur of the ocean and the night wind rustling through palm trees. The lump in my throat grew to the size of a giant coconut.“It’s true,” he said. “I’ve always loved you. Even when I hated you.”Oh God oh God oh God oh God.“Loved? Past tense?” I was pushing it, but my heart took a perilous leap.“Loved. Love. What does it matter?” He pulled me into the cradle of his arms. “Love don’t die.”When I say this story is different…it’s because in all the books I’ve read, I’veneverread anything remotely close toTPS. Not that I haven’t experienced elements that it had in other books…but the way everything was used and combined on top of the way Leylah wrote it is what made it stand out for me. It had the mystery aspect that I made reference to…which, once we switch from Skye’s POV to Damian’s, all the missing pieces are filled in, but that didn’t make things in any way easier or more simple. If anything it led to more convoluted feelings and more angst on my heart…which for some reason made me love it more (apparently I’m addicted to Leylah’s specific brand of torture!). In the beginning, with the kidnapping and everything, it wasa lotdarker than I expected – in a good way, but I was still happily surprised to get this kind of story from Leylah. I mean, it wasn’t as dark as other authors have gone but it was still amazing and worked…it didn’t feel forced and Ilovedseeing that side of Leylah’s writing. I loved that it was so much more than a love story…but not in a way that distracted or took away from how much I was enjoying Damian and Skye. That sounds really confusing now that I have typed it but it enhanced the romance and each detail played a part in making me enjoy their connection and relationship more – all the drama and side situations only fed into enhancing Damian and Skye...and it came across so effortlessly.“You’re out of your mind.”“Am I?” He swept one arm around the small of my back and pulled me in. “Tell me you haven’t missed me. Tell me you haven’t stayed up nights thinking of how good we are together. Because right at this moment, all I want to do is push you up against the wall and take you so hard that I can’t tell where I end and where you begin. I ache where you’re supposed to be, Skye, and I’m not going to stop until you’re mine. So we can draw this out or we can quit wasting more time. Either way, we’re going to end up right here. Me about to fuck you.”This is not a story about Damian and Skye…far from it. There are a few other characters that play their crucial role in this exceptional story and without them…there would be no Damian and Skye. Some I can’t go into too much detail about because…well, it would spoil things and I just can’t do that to anyone…but I would hate myself just a little bit if I didn’t at least mention them. Esteban Samuel Alvarez…I cannot even contain my love for my little Estebandido…he is playful and strong willed andsoincredibly loving. I could go on and on for days about how much I love Esteban, but at the risk of spoilers I will leave it at this…his heart and his capacity to love is truly what brings a lot of this story together. Adriana Nina Torres Sedgewick…Skye’s mother…while she is not physically in the book, her presence and spirit plays its own special part…family as a whole and how everything intertwines is very crucial to this story overall. Warren Henderson Sedgewick…there will always be a soft spot in my heart for Skye’s daddy and his three kisses. At the end of the day, while I may not have liked everything he did…the one thing I did adore was how much he loved his daughter. I can say a million other things but I cannot say that he wasn’t a loving father. And last but definitely not least…Maria Luisa Alvarez…oh MaMaLu…this woman and her selfless heartalmoststole the book for me. I adored her as much as I adored Skye and Damian. She is a one of a kind character whose imprint is felt in many, many ways and she’s the catalyst for so much of what happens. I loved what she did for both Damian and Skye…how much she loved them and of course seeing how much they loved her.“Come.” I held out my hand. “Home.” The only two words that managed to escape. I couldn’t fight it anymore. Loving Damian might destroy me, but not loving him was killing me.I didn’t wait for an answer. I took his hand, turned off the light, and led him to the mansion.“Wait,” he said at the door. “I don’t—”“I love you, Damian. Always you. Only you. This is where you belong. With me and Sierra.”“But you said—”“I know. I said a lot of things. To you, to myself. Then I remembered what you said. ‘Love don’t die.’ It’s true, Damian. I have never stopped loving you, from the time I was a little girl up in that room. When I follow my heart, it always leads me back to you.”It’s official…I want to live in Leylah Attar’s brain. Pretty please. Because amazingness comes from it. This is only the second novel of hers that I have read and I don’t know how else to describe her writing other than pure genius that I love with an unending passion. I cannot believe how easily and quickly I fell in love with this book…like by the time I realized that I was hypnotized by the brilliance I was reading, I wassoincredibly invested…everything aboutThe Paper Swanjust captivated me. Her writing isbeyondphenomenal. Likeseriouslyout of this world amazing… her words just hit me with such force and power. There is such an elegant beauty and a natural simplicity in what she was saying but the impact and the way it left me feeling is beyond description. And it didn’t stop there - the plot line was totally unpredictable…there were a few things that I figured out, but aside from those, there weresomany moments that had my eyes bugging out of my head – I’ve read my fair share of books that have shocked me but there were a couple ofHoly Hellmoments for me…I gave up trying to guess what could happen next because there was no way to prepare myself, and Ilovewhen that happens. Even at the end - just when I thought…oh, I can relax now…finally – because I swear, I was on alert the entire time through reading this book, always waiting for the next bomb to drop – I got sloppy and just started to calm down and enjoy Skye and Damian…and that was my own mistake. Leylah got me good with the sneak-attack-nail-biting-moment at the end…but I can’t deny…it was awesome. Then again, every moment ofThe Paper Swanwas awesome.‘We are sand and rock and water and sky, anchors on ships and sails in the wind. We are a journey to a destination that shifts every time we dream or fall or leap or weep. We are stars with flaws that still sparkle and shine. We will always strive, always want, always have more questions than answers, but there are moments like these, full of magic and contentment, when souls get a glimpse of the divine and quite simply, lose their breath.’So…in case it wasn’t blatantly obvious – this was one of the best books I’ve read all year. Hands down could not love it more if I tried…but I would love to try. If I could read this book over and over again…I would, because I’m sure there are so many things that would meansomuch more the second time around. Truly epicness at its best…gorgeous writing…fantasticly intricate plot…well developed characters…all combined to create beauty on the page and magic in my head. Prepare for a book hangover cause there is no getting overThe Paper Swan.