Overall Opinion:This is an ARC copy.Overall, I give this book a 4 stars! I thoroughly enjoyed it! The angst and build-up was what caught my eye and kept me hooked.I started reading Maya Alden’s books in 2023. To be honest, I wasn't a fan of some of her earlier works because I felt the heroes were too much of an asshole to be redeemed and the heroines were too much of a doormat. And also, this author has some books where the hero continued to see other people after he had been with the heroine. But gradually, I continued to read her books and it got better and better. My perspectives on those books also changed as I understand the author more. I consider her one of my go-to and favorite authors for angst. She is truly a master of angsty build-up.For my safety gang, a few of this author's books, including this one, has a plot where the hero is currently with OW as a girlfriend or fiance and he does get intimate with OW. I know for my safety gang, this is a big turn-off. I understand if this book is not for you. I am a safety gal myself. I realized that this author, like many authors, has an MO (modus operandi), and this type of plot is part of her repertoire. So knowing this, I am not surprised or mad at the content.Also, for those bothered by the pollyanna/doormat type heroines, the author has a few books with that. I was once bothered by it too, but the doormat character is very upfront about that and it is part of making the angst so good. It also doesn't last long. The heroines find their backbones soon. I don't think the heroine here is a doormat.Author:Maya AldenYear Pub/Re Pub:2024Page Length:300Genre:contemporary romanceStandalone/Cliffhanger:No Cliffhanger/ part of a series, but StandaloneEpilogue Included:Yes, with additional epilogue with email sign-upAny Trigger Warning:Not reallymom dies of breast cancer and father dies in a car crash that he was driving drunk in and also caused older sister to be paralyzed.Recommend Reading:Yes!Will I Re-read This Book:Yes.Would I Read More Books by this Author:Yes and I have already.Technical/Editing Quality:very little grammar error.Writing/Content Quality:Well written. One of the main characters is half-Hawaiian. The author is knowledgeable regarding the food, language, and culture surrounding it. Most of the author's books are interracial romance where one of the main characters, usually the heroine, is not white. I think because the author is not white herself, the non-white characters feel authentic and I feel immersed in the book. The dialogue felt real and human.Blurb:Four years before the book begins, the hero and heroine meet as a guest and staff in a Hawaiian hotel where they spent two weeks hooking up. The crux of the angst starts with what the heroine overhears the hero says about her to his friend. What he says is very crude and devastating that summarizing it doesn’t fully grasp how hurtful his words were. I highly recommend reading it with your own eyes! He says she is “just a hotel maid” he doesn't think she is “intellectually on par” to be with him. She doesn't meet him to say goodbye. He leaves her a short goodbye note and an envelope of $1,000. Cut to four years later, a life changing event killed her alcoholic father, paralyzed her sister, and killed her dream to finish university to study art. The heroine is struggling financially and drowning in work (she works multiple jobs to pay for sister's on-site living rehab facility) when she meets the hero again in another Hawaiian hotel, engaged to her rich and mean-girl half-cousin. Through situations outside their control (many of the staff becoming sick in the hotel), the heroine and hero cannot avoid seeing each other and are forced to confront their past.Book Cover:The covers for the entire series are cute and follow similar color and cartoon schemes.Favorite Line:"Don't make life harder than it is. No point being bitter. Focus on why you're doing this. Keep your heart clean, sis. Now, tits out and chin up. You got this.”I like this quote because this is when the heroine sees the hero again and knows that he is engaged to her half-cousin. On top of being heartbroken, she feels and is made to feel small and insignificant and is also financially struggling. I think many of us can relate to this and the pep talk we give ourselves to keep going.Point Of View (POV):Dual POV.Overall Pace of Story:Good pacing.Instalove:Kind of. They are both physically attracted to each other when they first see each other four years ago. Four years later, there is still the spark, but both do not acknowledge it because for H, he is engaged to OW and for h, because of how it ended.H /h Relationship Info:Four years ago, they were not in a relationship, more like a hookup. It was instant attraction and lust so it was a two week hookup. They met in a Hawaiian hotel when she was the maid there and he was on a quick stop during a business trip. He was only supposed to stay a few days, but ended up extending his stay for two weeks because of his attraction to the heroine. They were getting to know each other and the heroine was hoping it was going to lead to a relationship until she overhears the hero talking about her to his friend. Four years later, the hero is engaged and the heroine is completely drowning in life to be in a relationship.Age:30 year old Hero and 26 year old Heroine.Hero:Hero is Dean Archer. The hero makes appearances in his brothers’ books in the series and he was likable in those books, but insufferable in this book. He is a billionaire with a phD in history working for his family’s business, Archer’s Art & Antiquities managing the Asian operations so he is always traveling. He is bisexual (this is mentioned 80 percent into the book and I feel like this is a plot hole which I will discuss further in the section “What I Didn’t Like.”)What the heroine overhears the hero says about her to his friend is crushing and portrays the hero as a rich and intellectual snob asshole. The irony is that he believes he is one of the good rich people since his family is down to earth, has genuine love towards each other, and doesn’t look down on other people. He is completely blind to his privilege as a wealthy, educated white person, but he thinks he is aware of it.Since the start of the book, the moment he sees the heroine again, he can’t stop thinking of her and gradually becomes conflicted with his engagement to his fiance/heroine’s half-cousin. It becomes worse when the facade he had of his fiance and his future in-laws start unraveling with every interaction they have with the heroine (they are super snobby). He believed they were good people in the beginning. Through his point of view, the readers see how he is flip flopping in his mind and making justifications for why he should be with his fiance, which sounds more like a business deal than a marriage, even though he says he wants a loving marriage like his parents and brothers’ marriages.Hero Description:He is described as gorgeous with dark hair, blue eyes, and olive skin.Hero Likability Rating:1 out of 5 stars. I don’t hate him, but I do not like him, because of 1) what the heroine overheard him say and the money he left on the table like their time together was a transaction, 2) his snobbery, and 3) his conflict of whether he wanted to be with his fiance or the heroine took too long, even though it wasn't. While he did grovel and I liked how he made amends to the heroine, somehow I thought the grovel should be more, or maybe not more, but sooner. When they do get together, the heroine asked him if he ever thought of her and he said “way too much” and that when he proposed to the fiance, he thought of her too, but that he never came for her because he thought she already moved on. I don’t believe his explanation. The reason he left was because he was a snob and she wasn’t good enough for him since she was a maid. Overall, I was convinced he loves the heroine in the end, but I don't believe he would have come looking for her if the situation didn't happen as they did.Book Boyfriend Material/OTT Alpha:I would not say he is book boyfriend material and not OTT.Heroine:: Heroine is Elika “Elikapeka” Leina Hamlet. She is native Hawaiian on her mother's side and half native Hawaiian on her father’s side. Like this author’s other book, Best Kept Secret, this heroine is another heroine with a tragic and painful past and present. When her mother was alive, she had a happy childhood with modest means. Her mother was a school teacher and her father worked at the bank. She has an older sister, who she is not particularly close to. Her father has a chip on his shoulder. He was the product of an affair between a native Hawaiian woman and a wealthy, old east coast money man. The man was pretty much a coward and had his over controlling wife browbeat him to not acknowledge his son. When he died, the fortunate went to his legitimate son, Samuel Thatcher. The heroine’s parents and Sam were close friends, but when Sam met his wife Ginny, they no longer became friends. Sam is a coward like his father and has an overbearing wife like his mother.When the heroine’s mother dies of breast cancer, her father becomes bitter about not inheriting any of his father’s wealth. He became an alcoholic and since he was closer to his eldest daughter, his bitterness about not being rich also transferred to her. She would egg him on. He eventually lost his job. He mortgaged their home to pay for a smarmy lawyer to contest the will and lost. The heroine’s father was able to pay for his eldest daughter to go to hospitality school and she made good money working at a salon. By the time they lost the lawsuit, they had no money left. At no point did Sam, his half-brother, help him financially, not even when his wife had cancer.It was soon after the hero left the heroine four years ago, that the life changing accident happened. Her father was driving drunk with her sister in the car resulting in his death and her sister paralyzed. Since then, the heroine has had to pause her study at the university to take on more hours and more jobs to pay for her sister to attend a top quality rehab living facility. She works 6 out of 7 days a week at the hotel and surrounding restaurants. The one day she doesn't work, she visits her sister who takes out her depression and anger on the heroine. She lives in a small cabin in the hotel grounds for the hotel employees. The author really drives the point that every minute and every dollar is literally precious and essential to the heroine and she is stretched thin.The heroine overhears the hero saying he enjoyed her company, but because she is a hotel maid, he doesn’t see a future with her. He doesn’t think she is intellectually on par with him and even though she shared she is a university student, he believes she is either lying to save face or doesn’t believe she will continue her studies. He tells his friend that he took her out, but his friend correctly surmises that he took her to places where no one would recognize him. He said she was the best sex of his life and when his friend asks if he will miss her, he responds, “I’ll miss the awesome head she gives”, when the heroine overhears this, she realizes he reduced her to “what was between her legs”.Heroine Description:she was described as stunning with dark hair, smooth caramel skin, full lips, and deep brown eyes that held a quiet intensity. She had a natural grace when she moved, and carried a quiet strength and beauty, but had an edge of weariness.Heroine Likability Rating:I love Elika! I would shower her with thousands of stars out of 5. She is a fighter. Her description embodies her character. As a maid for a luxury hotel, I imagine she has been demeaned and looked down a lot by snobby guests. But while it does wear her down, she doesn't show it, she carries that dignified, quiet strength. I think we can all relate to having felt insignificant.I like how she carries herself when she sees the hero again. She is heartbroken and taken aback, but quickly recovers. She wasn't pining away for him and she doesn't show him how he affects her. Unlike the hero who is in upheaval over seeing her again, she is focused on her life/struggle to make sure she always makes ends meet.Important Secondary Characters:Brief Summary of the Storyline:The story starts with the hero and heroine meeting again after four years in a hotel room in Hawaii. She knows he is here with his fiance who is her half-cousin. He is surprised to see her and her still being a maid reinforce the stereotypes he had of her. Immediately, he can't stop thinking about the heroine and later finds out she is related to his fiance. Meanwhile, she acts like he is like any other guest.The first half of the book focus on their meeting again after four years, the hero finding out more about the heroine and getting his assumptions of her wrong (which was really satisfying), really good angsty OW drama in form of the hero’s fiance (the fiance, also her half-cousin and her friends and family continuously try to put her down and report her to her employer), the confrontation of the past between the hero and the heroine, and the hero’s conflicting feelings regarding the fiance and the heroine. Seeing the heroine again, he can’t stop thinking of her and tries to convince himself that he isn’t making a mistake being engaged to his fiance. The safety gang might not like this because in order to convince himself he does love the fiance, there are kissing scenes with the fiance and one intimate scene that the heroine walks in on, but during all those times, the hero is thinking of the heroine (lol). The author does a great job in describing and showing just how hard the heroine works. She works from sunup to more than sundown and the one day she doesn't work, she bikes miles away to the expensive rehab living facility to visit her ungrateful sister.The second half of the book focuses on the grovel and healing for the heroine. The heroine does not take him back immediately and there is no body betrayal syndrome. There is still lingering drama and OW drama going on that keeps you entertained.This ends in a satisfying HEA with satisfying comeuppance for the OW and her family.Pros/What I Liked:1.The angst and OW drama in this story is sooooo good. Her angst in the other books in this series are great too. I did not like that the hero was with the fiance, but I enjoyed the OW drama. My favorite scene was when the heroine confronted the hero about what she overheard him say and another favorite scene was when he wanted to give her money and she explained she couldn’t accept it because she didn’t want to rely on him or anyone else. This was when he was still engaged to the OW. She said that one day, his fiance would make him stop giving her money and then she would need to learn how to fend for herself again.2. There was a comeuppance for the heroine's evil half-cousin and her parents. After a scene where the OW frames the heroine with a crime, the hero cut ties to their family business. The cowardly uncle asks the heroine to take pity on them, which the heroine agrees, but one of the hero’s brothers, who is the CEO of their family business, is ruthless, and decides to ruin their business anyway. In the epilogue, with her family business not doing so well, the OW asks the heroine to help them, to no avail.3. I cannot wait for Dante’s story!Cons/What I Didn't Liked:1. The hero being bisexual did not seem authentic. It came out 80 percent into the book when the book was ending. In his inner monologue throughout the book, he mentions sleeping with other women, but never mentions men. In his talks with his family and friends about his pending marriage and finding love, there was no mention of whether he would be happy with a man. One of the main plots of the book is that the hero is conflicted about who he loves. It wasn’t just the fiance or the heroine he was conflicted about. He wanted a marriage that his parents and brothers have with the right person. Why didn’t he ever wonder if the right person could have been a man? Additionally, his fiance was the judgmental and conservative type. It was never mentioned if she knew if he was bisexual, but it’s not something she would have accepted about him.Angst/Sadness level:The heroine led a sad life, but no tears.Push/Pull:Pushing from both heroine and hero and then pulling from the hero.Heat level:I think there were only a few intimate scenes, but I didn’t mind because I was more focused on the plot and it wouldn’t make sense to have too many intimate scenes because then the heroine would have folded easily and the hero would not have groveled so much.Descriptive sex:Yes between hero and heroine.OW (Other Woman)/OM (Other Man) drama:Yes, OW drama.Did OW/OM/Ex Ruin the Book For You:No, it made the angst better. I loved it! I love how the OW and friends tried to put down the heroine, but failed. I lived for those scenes.Sex scene with OW or OM:Yes, there are some kissing scenes and a quick scene where the heroine walks into the hotel room when the fiance is straddling the hero having sex.M/F-M/M-M/M/F-etc:M/FBirth Control/Condoms:Hero always wore protection, even with his fiance, but not with the heroine. They discussed this.Cheating Before/During/Outside H/h relationship:No.Grovel Rating:3 out of 5. I was convinced of the hero’s grovel and that he loved the heroine, but I am conflicted about the hero. If I was in the heroine’s shoes, I am not sure I would have taken him back. Some moments I think I would because the ending was satisfying, but I don’t know if I can get over what the hero said and him not ever showing up in the four years since they hooked up. If he did not get engaged and went back to Hawaii, would he have even come back for her (he said he thought of her all the time)?Love Triangle:No.Separation:Yes, off-page they hooked up for two weeks (the heroine expected it to turn into more), they were not together for four years. The book starts four years later, with the hero engaged unknowingly to the heroine's half-cousin.Virgin/Celibate/Manwhore:No virgins and they were not celibate during their four years apart. The hero said he had slept with other women, and it's not clear how many other people the heroine slept with, but it was clear she slept with someone. It was difficult for her to date or even have time for sex since she works almost 24/7.Contains Children:No.Contains Flashback:No.Possible Pet Peeves/Triggers:No pet peeves.Plot Holes:Explained above, but the mention of the hero being bisexual 80 percent in the book was weird, it contradicted the hero’s inner monologues and overall story.HEA/HFN/etc Ending:HEA.Closure/Epilogue:Yes with extra epilogue with email sign up.Safety:I don’t think the hero was a manho, but he did have sex with other women after he left the heroine. He is also engaged to ow in the beginning of the book and they are intimate. There are some kissing scenes and a quick scene where the heroine walks into the hotel room when the fiance is straddling the hero having sex. In his inner monologue, even when he kisses fiance, he can’t stop thinking of the heroine. He gets hard just thinking of her and the fiance assumes it’s because of her. After the intimate scene, he does avoid sex with the fiance