I've been developing akinklove for ✨barbarian✨ novels. The part of me that has been slowing getting out of touch with humanity, because I've been staying at home too much this year, can absolutely relate … kidding.Imagine living in the modern world, waiting in vain for your prince charming to sweep you off your feet and to find that one spark with another human being, just to realize that your soulmate is a human-like primate born in the prehistoric period. Awkward.Written solely in the Hero's perspective,Transcendenceis a story aboutEhd, a literal caveman, who's been living in the wilderness on his own for some time after a forest fire took his family and whole tribe. One day, he finds a women in his pit trap and hauls her back to his cave to love and protect kidnapp, but somehow along the line they both fell in love. Guess, forced proximity and pairs who survive the winter in a cave together stay together ✌️. This book doesn't have any kind of plot. All Ehd andElizabeth, or how Ehd calls her"Beh", are doing is collect wood, clean themselves in the lake, make a fire, cook food, sleep, have sex, comb their hair, repeat. Ah, and let's not forget to bear children, because yk prehistoric times and birth control is not a thing yet. 😌I love how Shay Savage writes the most interesting survival books (having also readSurviving Raine) with very unique settings.The premise of this book great, the execuation could be improved. What made this book just an "okay" read for me is the failed communication between Beh and Ehd. Ehd can't understand any type of language, because he's missing that part in his brain that understands language, all he can produce are some primitive sounds, so the only "dialogues" in this book were the characters saying each other names and "kiss".The lack of communication + only Ehd's POV made this book become monotonous pretty quickly. Beh's POV would have helped Transcendence greatly to make it more interesting even if she would only talked to herself.The epilogue chapter was good, because the whole story came full circle and some things in this book finally made more sense that didn't make sense to me while reading. I still have so many questions regarding Beh's reason to stay and some events that happened during the book, which it could have profited on from Beh's POV.Disclaimer:I've already read "Luffs" (#1.5) when I was writing this review, it's a short novella from Beh's POV answering exactly these questions. It definitely helped clearing up some things that I didn't understand while reading Transcendence, but instead of the extra novella, Shay Savage should just include it in Transcendence. A lot of things would make so much more sense.The romance between Beh and Ehd was very cute and sweet. Ehd must be one of the most civilized & sweetest cavemen I've ever read about. A caveman who takes a "No" for No? Wow, I don't know if I should be impressed or not. Maybe the romance was a little too sweet for me considering the circumstances. Where was the angst? The drama? The high stakes living in the wildness? I wanted something… anything, but anything resembling a fight or drama was resolved pretty quickly. Even the sad scenes that should have made my heart ache were written in the way that made me feel sad for like 3 seconds before everything was okay again. –//spoilers//Ehd and Beh have a baby girl named "Lah", the baby gets sick and is close to dying but then Beh's father time travels to them at the right time and takes the baby with him to get to a hospital. Ehd is very devastated about the loss of his baby and is mourning, but then it was just said that Beh and Ehd had like another baby the next winter and I was like ???? Wait stop for a second… WHAT. And when I was still trying to understand what was happening, Beh's father came back with a healthy Lah. I couldn't even mourn Lah, before she was back again with her fam so yeah I wanted something to hurt and it never came. 🙈 –Honestly, I just want to applaud Beh for a second, because girl, I could never be her! Beh struggled at the beginning with her surrounding, which was expected, but she quickly put on her big girl panties and adapted to everything like a PRO. Go GIRL! I have no other choice but to stan! If by chance, I'd be transported back to prehistoric times and had to live in the wildness.. I'd be dead in 48 hours max… okay who am I kidding, I'd be dead after 2 hours after making too much noise and attracting all kind of wild animals. I'd let boars trample me to death, cause let's be real what's the point? Why prolong the inevitable. 😂*Historians in the far future finding & examining my bones*: yeah no this girl didn't even try…Nothing spectacular, but Transcendence was quite interesting and unique enough that I'll not forget it for a long time and most importantly, it satisfied my craving for barbarian romances for now.TRANSCENDENCE SERIES#1Transcendence–3.25 stars#2Luffs–2.75 stars