1.75 stars✩⋆oops this is awkward. i know this is a beloved CoHo book and yes, i loved this back then when i first read it but rereading itnowi-don't look at me.my reading taste have changed oookay? i might have overlooked every shitty thing back then but now that i'm more petty, have the penchant for holding a grudge, and have high standards for books ooohh boy.✧what is this about?↳ okay so this is aboutMiles and Racheloops sorry, i meant Tate and Miles. Miles being Tate's brother's best friend and Tate being Miles'therapist, ugh sorry, i meant friends with benefits person and the whole time she was hoping he would change his mind because duh she's falling for him while Miles just implicitly leads her on even though he's clear about his rules and pushes her away the whole damn time because of his past but he won't stop their little arrangement because our mans ishorny as fuck.also,Miles is a pilot. this is an important fact. ALSO also, this isnotTate and Miles' story- this is Tate + Miles and Rachel's story.i read this years ago and the only things i remember is that Miles got horny while he was wearing swim shorts? (idfk why i remember this don't ask), Miles and Rachel's shower scene (again, idfk why i remember this but i wish i can unsee it thank you very much), and then the Nick Bateman trailer??anyways, that's all i remember and i know, they're all irrelevant but do you know what i forgot?? huh? do you? DO YOU??! well, if you've read this then you can probably guess what i didn't remember because HOLY SHIT- the scene at the end. guys... GUYS.What. The. Fuck.i was speechless-S-P-E-E-C-H-L-E-S-S. i canNOT believe i forgot that scene holy shit. the anger. the annoyance- the fuckingragethat i felt when i read that oh my god. anyways, i'm ranting again and y'all know the drill so,･ﾟﾟ･｡｡･ﾟﾟ･SPOILERS AHEAD･ﾟﾟ･｡｡･ﾟﾟ･．⤅dislike #1: Miles' povyou know what, i'm gonna be straight to the point:MILES SEEMED MORE IN LOVE WITH RACHEL. or at least he will never love anyone the way he loved Rachel because it wasthatintense. now, now. lemme explain.the problem is, almost all of Miles' pov in this book is about the past and most of these past chapters are of him falling so deeply and passionately in love with Rachel that he turns into fucking ✨s h a k e s p e a r e✨She doesn't realize she's everywhere She's in everything Everysingle thing hasjust become Rachel,It's consuming me.My thoughts aren't thoughts anymore.My thoughts are Rachel.I can't fall in love with you, Rachel.I look at the sink. I want to look at Rachel.I breathe in air. I want to breathe in Rachel.I close my eyes. I only see Rachel.I wash my hands. I want to touch Rachel.do y'all see this ⤴ ? this is the type of thing i wanted to see from Miles' pov when he's talking about TateNOTRachel but we never got to see this until the very end. and then when we get to the present chapters it's 98% in Tate's pov where we seeherfalling in love with Miles and this is annoying to me because seeing Miles treat Rachel like a goddess in his past chapters and then Miles being a little dickhead in Tate's chapters ugh-energy? notm a t c h e d.and with most of Miles' pov being in the past and falling in love with Rachel, obviously i couldn't help but compare and overanalyze every single thing and think he seems more in love with Rachel. and the thing that annoys me the most is that Tate's present pov and Miles' pov alternates so whenever we read Tate and Miles' romantic progression, the next chapter is Miles being so deeply in love with another woman, it's just...i could've done with justonepast Miles pov instead of making it every second chapter or making it 50% of the whole content and showing the way he fell in love sooOOoooOo deeply with Rachel instead of just having 1-2 chapters of his pov about Tate, who's theactual heroine of the book. it's just soblehand icky the whole timeshe felt like second bestfor me and i just felt bad. i know i've always complained about telling >>> showing in other books but this is the only time i'll ever accept all tell, no show.⤅dislike #2: i can't with the doormat behaviorwhat makes everything more annoying is how Tate just lets him use her for sex and forgives him way too easily all the damn time like bish NO make him work for it for once and stop being a doormat it's annoying (yes, i know i've said the word annoying one too many times but that's how i felt 99.9% of the book OK).“If any other man ever treated me like he did, it would be the one and only time. I don’t put up with the things I’ve seen a lot of my friends put up with. However, I find myself continuing to make excuses for him, like something could actually justify his actions last week.”ma'am pLS-the whole time i was just yelling at her,TATE, YOU ARE NOT HIS THERAPIST. ugh this pissed me off so much i couldn't even cheer for their romance because Miles was eh and honestly had no redeeming qualities in the present and then reading about his past pov being all in love with Rachel and in the present he just uses Tate for sex and pushes her away quite rudely all the damn time is,again, A-N-N-O-Y-I-N-G.⤅dislike #3: repetitive romanceno seriously. all they ever did was have sex, Tate hoping he would renege his rules and tell her that he does indeed love her and want a relationship with her, Miles pushing her away, Tate forgives him and then they fuck. repeat.⤅dislike #4: pain. just- P A I Nand then- AND THEN i was just reading Tate and Miles' repetitive interactions where i thought the same shit would happen again and again in peace but THEEENNN.........hold on, lemme just give y'all a moment to breathe.......are you ready? OK"My God, Rachel."um excuse me-you're probably wondering,mel, did he really say his ex's name, his ex who we've been reading about in his past chapters and won't shut up about how much he loves this other woman, while having sex with Tate??well, i don't know let's look at the quote again shall we? are you guys ready?He pulls out, then thrusts inside me again, this time with all his strength.It hurts.Give me your pain, Miles."MY GOD, RACHEL."My God, Rachel...Rachel, Rachel, Rachelthere. did y'all see that? okay? good.now, not gonna lie with you guys, this oneHURT. when i read this scene i didn't know how to feel to be honest. was i shocked? appalled? speechless as fuck? all of the above?? yes. now with this scene, my annoyance reached its peak and is higher than the fucking stratosphere because why you ask? well, it's because there isNO GROVELING!! Tate leaves, Miles lets her go and says it's hard to feel bad for her because she's never felt real pain, then goes to Rachel for closure, goes to Tate and explains his pastvaguelyand all is forgiven???i'm pretty sure this is where my hatred forhero fucks up so bad but heroine forgives them after one speechtrope came from.now, some might say that he gets a pass because of his sad past- because it really was sad by the way - but you see, for the majority of the book we've been reading about how Miles fought for and loved Rachel, and Tate fought for and loved Miles, for once i wanted to see him fighting for Tate but we never got to see that because again, there isNO. GROVELING.───── ･ ｡ﾟ☆: *.☽ .* :☆ﾟ. ─────i can't believe i rated this 5 stars back then. i don't know who pre 2019 mel is. we don't know her.honestly, because of the ending, i was this close to rating this 1 star because that's how annoyed i was with everyone but i felt generous today so. as always, i liked the emotional writing and how i can feel the longing and passion between Tate and Miles when they're having sex, the whole "ugly love" message, and learning about Miles' past and why he's the way he is?? it was so sad.but overall, everyone annoyed the f outta me (except for Cap- he's the best character in this book), this is basically Miles and Rachel's story, and the ending was unsatisfying as fuck.* * *original rating (july 2015)──5 stars