I cannot believe I have not written a review of any of the Zombie Fallout books yet. These books are just fantastic and along with the White Flag of the Dead books I have lost plenty of sleep staying up late reading these books. Warning this review is a little spoilerish.Where do we even start the writing is superb why because Mike and company are not just characters they are real people well with the exception of Eliza and Tommy/Tomas that you could meet anywhere. Yet these people are unique but realistic.However Mark, I want to shake you and ask why and then beg you to publish the sixth book immediately. I can clearly see how Tufo took inspiration from his real life and made it into a book. Sadly I think this book was the hardest one to read in the series.Why do you ask because some serious *hit goes down in this book. From the get go Mike and company know a showdown with Eliza and her “flying monkeys” (my terms not Marks) is inevitable, the group is also being proactive. However their plan to literally cut Eliza off at the pass goes awry and the group all suffers as a consequence. There is also a sub-plot with the Sea Hag (Mrs. Devarux) which really left me with an uneasy feeling.The bulk of the book consists of Mike and company struggling to find each other after being split up and get the heck out of Dodge, but the zombies and a few humans will be having none of that. Sadly a character or two does not make it thanks to certain person’s murderous and deceitful actions. That is why this book is so hard to read because someone is manipulating the group to serve their own selfish needs. We also get a little bit more info on this person. Considering their actions I think this info may be more important later on and we have not seen the last of this person.As I stated a good portion of the book is the group trying to find one another. However Mike’s powers are starting to evolve and I think in some ways this further complicates an already precarious and tense situation. The last ¼ of the book is tragic because you become invested in a characters storyline, to find it does not end well. The actions that led to the resolution of said storyline also lead up to the most baffling cliffhanger ending. We also learn a little more about Mike and Paul BZ (before zombies) which was great but it also made what happens in the book just little harder to swallow. All I can say is I hope we get another book and soon. The last quarter of the book was just wickedly twisted and it would be cruel to leave the fans hanging for too long.This book as always is another excellent installment in the series. Read it.