(Reviewing entire Rising series as a whole) Set during just as the apocalypse is starting. I loved the way the author described the destruction and end of the world as we know it through the view of the characters. The way he visualises and describes the constrast of the world vs the end of the world was beautiful. There was a real 'Finding Nemo' aspect with the father travelling across worlds through treacherous and dangerous terrain to find his son, but there's way, way more to this series than just that. Very well written, most main characters were distinct to me all throughout. I felt like the author just understood the different personalities of the characters and portrayed them beautifully into words.The author's concept of zombies was different and unique too. I assume other books that came after it by other authors had borrowed this idea of zombies being from a religious origin from this author. I wish it were longer and it seemed a lot of people thought so because the author's notes at the end of the book would talk a lot about how he didn't want to write more but he did. He ended up doing some extra books afterwards that were very enjoyable and expanded the world he had created even more, like side books to compliment the original story. He also wrote about the books/stories he wrote and described who the characters were in real life, where and when he wrote them. It was very nice to get that insider look into the making of these books, I love reading about that stuff.I struggled to find copies of some of the 'extra' side books that he had written to compliment The Rising series. They do not alter the story, they just 'expand' this world he created a bit more so it's disappointing but does not take away from the original series.Some parts of the books which were literally just storytelling and stating things that had happened still felt like they were written very poetically and elegantly. I highlighted many quotes in this series, I liked many of the sentences by themself, just as a quote. I am intrigued by this talented author and would look into branching out into other thriller/horror/creepy books by this same author even if they aren't about zombies, which is something I almost never do. Whether I find them interesting enough to finish, we will see!