TLDR: If you want to theorize about the movie I would recommend giving this one a read for further evidence and it is overall a very entertaining movie mobilization.Welcome back to Emma’s coverage of FNAF books in an attempt to scrape them for the minuscule bits of lore they might contain. Previously we have covered the Cookbook and the Character Encyclopedia both of which had varying amounts of lore. On today's episode, we have the movie novelizations.“ Now wait ”, I hear you say, “Wouldn’t any lore in this book be the same ass what was presented in the movie?” And while for the most part that is generally true, I must turn you attention to the fact that this is a book, not a movie. With that, this piece is able to more fully articulate character thoughts and intentions that are otherwise left up to just actor portrayal. We get a deeper look into the minds of several characters that we just don’t get in the movie. With that we are also given several new bits of dialogue and whole new scenes that probably had to be cut from the film due to time constraints. We are also given more actuarial descriptions of character actions with notes about the intentions of their portrayal. For example, this book covers up the plot hole of why Aunt Jane was trying to take custody of Abby, Abby has a trust fund from her Grandfather (Jane's Dad) that Aunt Jane wants access to.Most notably this book makes Vanessa's character feel more cohesive. She is kind of hard to get a read on in the film, but the extra look into her actions through Mike's eyes makes her make so much more sense. Like I get her character so much more now, and I really do better understand her actions. And AND, this is where my theorist hat goes on for a moment, there are several lines in here that add further evidence to the theory that Vanessa is a robot. It is in there, it is definitely possible, anyone in this franchise could be a robot and Vanessa is looking ever more so like one by the day.We also got some interesting further character development on Mike that I don’t think was in the movie as much as it is referenced in here. There are several references and instances where Mike talks about how much he likes to build things. He talks about how this has always been a passion and how he has kind of a technical mind for construction. Interesting huh?Now just a few other small things I found interesting. In the Steve Raglin office scenes near the start, we learn that Afton has a distinct small to him. Kind of what I assume is the smell of the old pizzeria and his old costume. Interesting implications sort of but definitely a fun detail that you can’t really convey in a movie without characters verbally saying, “Dude you smell weird” or making a really strange face.I also liked how they kept the Ness sense intact, lines and all. For those of you out of the know, that is MatPats cameo and Scott specifically said that his character had to be named Ness in reference to the infamous Sans is Ness theory.Overall I would say that this is a really great movie novilization. It adds elements to the narrative that a movie just can’t include and pick up on some slack that didn’t quite makes it past the editing room floor. For those making theories about the movie I would highly suggest giving this a read because of the nuance it adds to the characters and clarity of intention it places on certain scenes, actions, and acting choices.