A serviceable plot, with the usual silliness and contrivances that don't need dwelling on, and a cookie cutter alpha/full moon/dog-references werewolf cult for our heroes to carve their way through.Unfortunately, the writing is atrocious. In a word, simple; but rather than the sort of breezy prose that lets you fly through a plot, it feels like the intended reader is a 10-year old who needs constant reinforcement. Something is shown, then explained, then explained again, and again, and it feels like everything brought up in the first chapter is mentioned over and over again for the rest of the book. Reading this feels like a few plots points were drawn up, then the paragraphs connecting them were filled with the same words in a different order, then further puffed up by having the characters tell you the same words in case you forgot what you'd read the previous sentence. I felt like I was constantly dragging myself through filler since there wasn't any plan for how to flesh out the book between each event.You know that thing where characters will pause a scene and dump exposition on each other? That happens. A lot. Tension is constantly lost, urgent events don't feel urgent, pacing is all over the place as important events almost pass you by in a single sentence while others drag on because everyone is standing around sneering at each other. I like to keep a mental movie of what's going on when reading, and this movie involved a lot of people awkwardly stopping in their tracks in the middle of killing each other so they can talk about something that's already been talked about 50 times already.And, look, if I'm already trashing this: there's heavy abuse of plot armour. Sometimes you just want your werewolves, who normally effortlessly tear someone to shreds in an instant, to sort of pause and salivate for a second after pouncing on your protagonist just to really sell the stakes. Really, that's fine. But doing it over and over again, while having your werewolves both act out and talk about their uncontrollable desire to rip humans to shreds, really drives home the feeling of aimlessly threading from one set piece to another, without having any idea how to reasonably make your battered and bruised heroes fend off the monsters designed to be unstoppable killing machines.The bombastic events don't even feel bombastic. It's all filler, the werewolves are generic bad guys, I don't care about any of the characters, I can't care about this book.