Oh, man. Where to start with this one? I had such high expectations for this novella when I first read about the premise. I was so excited to read a sort of Mexican spin onThe Craft. I really wanted a novel playing up Mexican folklore as well as the occult, which is what the book led me to believe this would be. It was also printed by a very pro-feminism publisher, so I thought I was in for a really fun ride. I was very wrong.I think the biggest problem withGoddess of Filthis that V. Castro wanted to write a scary story that symbolized a coming of age metaphor, but missed pretty much every mark she needed to hit. On top of that, she pushed aside the more interesting factors of her story, like the occult practices, in order to focus more on the premise those practices set up. That sounds a little confusing, but let me explain. Everything that happens in this novella is the result of a séance gone wrong, however, even though this is arguably the most pivotal scene in the entire novel, it has no build up whatsoever (it's the opening scene) and takes place so quickly and so poorly that I was stunned these girls were able to summon anything at all. Then, what comes forth from this séance is what I believe to function as V. Castro's big metaphor for growing up, but when taken at face value translates to something completely polar to her initial intent. In other words, allowing an ancient being to possess you is supposed to represent a main character coming into herself, but at the end of the day it just reads as if a woman can only reach her full potential if she gives someone else control of her body. Which is basically the most anti-feminist concept out there. Like it goes against all the principals women have been fighting for over the last several centuries.So that's the major root of the issue with this novella, however, there's more. What's the first thing you would do if you thought your best friend was possessed by a demon? Some people may go to a doctor, others may seek out a priest, but I don't think anyone in their right mind would say "Let's sneak this 19 year old girl into a 21+ night club!" Not only do the characters inGoddess of Filthdo this, but then they lose their friend and she ends up in a sleazy situation with a predatory guy. Just where was the common sense in all of this?There was just so much blatantly wrong with this novel and so many more scenes of main characters making stupid decisions that made no logical sense, but I'll overlook that in favor of speaking about the absurd, unnecessary side plot that takes place during the majority of this story. Just about every scene with that scumbag priest was a joke. It felt so forced and unhinged and the big reveal about him was gross and cliché. In fact this storyline hinged so closely on a stereotypical caricature that it actually made me start paying more attention to the stereotypes Castro implemented in her novella. Constantly she has main characters saying they are more than a stereotype, and constantly she introduces characters who are literally defined by a negative cultural interpretation. Every time I met a new character I would roll my eyes at how undeveloped they were.I wanted to enjoy this novella. I had high hopes for it, but it strayed away from all of the major topics that initially made this storyline intriguing. There was a really interesting concept buried deep inside this tale, but it was never dug up and fleshed out enough to carry this story beyond a low 2-star rating.