Anticipating that the author ofLet the Right One InandLittle Starwould grab me by the throat again, this time with a zombie uprising in Sweden, I was very disappointed to receive only a gentle bump. Two stars are for John Ajvide Lindqvist's somber and ambitious attempt to try something radically different in a sub-genre where so many authors simply follow the market. It's an admirable try.Freakish atmospheric phenomenon hits Stockholm during the summer and the lives of several characters are effected when the corpses of nearly 2,000 recently deceased Swedes rise from the grave. Standup comedian David loses his wife Eva in a car accident only to watch her reanimate in Danderyd Hospital. Their 9-year-old son Magnus must cope.A reporter named Mahler is dispatched to the hospital to find the staff struggling to detain the bodies who have hopped up in the morgue and are struggling to leave. Mahler has a 6-year-old grandson who recently died and digs the boy out of his grave to bring it home to his despondent daughter Anna. What's left of the boy is more mummy than child, but rather than turn it over to the authorities, Mahler and Anna hide it.Elvy and her granddaughter Flora are gifted with second sight and are visited by Elvy's dead husband, who cannot speak, but tries to go about living as if nothing had changed. Whereas Flora is a fan of Marilyn Manson and horror movies, her Christian grandmother sees this as a sign of the Resurrection. They both detect a presence around the undead and though the corpses remain non-violent, soon to be rounded up and interned at the hospital, the women sense something else is going on.Handling the Undeadwas a Kindle purchase and by the time I'd read 70%, I started flipping through the pages to finish. The novel is inferior to Lindqvist's spellbinding debut in every way -- one-dimensional characters, flaccid atmosphere, sparse social commentary, lack of horror -- and nowhere near as chilling or unpredictable as his most recent.Buyer beware, this is not a doomsday take on the zombie sub-genre or one in which the dead lurch around muttering "Brains!" With total seriousness, Lindqvist attempts to examine how Stockholm would react if the dead returned, from media coverage to legal issues to the behavior of Christian wingnuts. The problem is that very little seems at stake.Afterlife stories are often hamstrung with grieving characters, who I find not very interesting because they remain stuck in one gear. They're beside themselves over the death of a loved one until they learn contact might be made, but mostly, they weep, and mope, and ache, and they do this for family members the reader has no investment in and doesn't care a fig about.Handling the Undeadnever overcomes this drag.Lindqvist does conjure two ghoulish scenes involving the reanimated. One involves a grisly accident victim staring at her husband with her one remaining eye, and the second involving a drowning victim with little remaining in the way of human features trying to break into a cabin on an island.*** Spoilers! ***The author reveals that the undead are surrounded by an energy field which not only enables the living to read each others thoughts, but to influence the dead with their own thoughts. This is sort of like the "mood slime" inGhostbusters II. This psychic concept was something new and had potential, but by then, I was bored by the characters and not interested in finding out what it meant for them.