This book is pretty much impossible to fit under the umbrella of just one genre, as it is alternately a paranormal quasi-thriller (that both debunks and lightly supports some aspects of the goings-on in the mystical realm); a murder mystery; a character study of a young girl finding answers and her way in the world; a cautionary tale of what can happen when one has too much or too little faith; a story where one person's short-sighted, selfish vision for the future has disastrous consequences; and a drama about a controversial family whose extraordinary professional adventures mask a deep, all-encompassing sadness and dysfunction.So, there's a lot going on, and matters are not helped by the fact that the narrative is not linear - one second, we're in the present day, the next, Sylvie is recounting events that happened years before, and then a month before, and then back to the present day, and characters pop into the story and then disappear for a long while. In short, the murky-factor in this one is high; it does take some patience to get through.While one is slogging through everything, there are some paranormal elements that show up, and they are interesting and even veer into eerie territory, but they are far from scary (in my view). The murder mystery is intriguing, and that's largely what kept me reading until the end: Mr. Searles did a good job of making sure that readers cannot guess the culprit's identity. However, I have to say that the revelation of just who that person was didn't come out of nowhere, per se, but I don't feel as though enough of a foundation was laid that made the ending feel earned - there were basically just a couple of hints spaced through a couple of hundred of pages, and then...there it was. And then, after one scene, it was all wrapped up.On the plus side, Sylvie was a very sympathetic character - the good daughter who always obeyed, made good grades, and put up with her overbearing, misfit older sister. She's the one that is followed throughout the story, as she struggled with the aftermath of the murder, the stigma that came part and parcel with her parents' profession and followed her around even after their deaths, and the quest to figure out what really happened. Along the way, she encountered a kind counselor, a mostly kind detective, and (yup, you guessed it) a kind former boyfriend of her sister's. While it was good that she had that support, those characters weren't developed beyond that point. In fact, there wasn't all that much in the way of character development for anyone. The other main character, big sister Rose, spent a vast majority of the book being absolutely horrible to everyone; very late in the story, her behavior was explained, and while what happened to her was absolutely vile and horrible and I felt sorry for her, it wasn't enough to completely erase the myriad terrible things she had done over the course of the preceding 350 pages. (I want to reiterate that what was done to her was inexcusable, and I absolutely hate that that kind of thing happens to kids all-too-often in the real world. It's just that, in this case, when you're constantly hit over the head with countless examples of Rose's bad, selfish, destructive behavior and how it hurt every single person around her, including Sylvie, time and time again, it can be very difficult to sweep all that aside once the truth is revealed.)All in all, I went into the book expecting more of a creepy, disturbing, chilling kind of a story, but the main thing I took away from it was sadness because Sylvie lost her parents, her family was in disarray even before their deaths (with her parents making numerous, huge mistakes that negatively and irrevocably impacted all of them), and she was virtually abandoned by her sister and everyone else. As a family drama, it worked; as a main character, Sylvie worked; as a murder mystery, it worked until it was resolved. For those reasons, I gave this one 3 stars. I think that with a clearer focus and some editing out of plodding, repetitive scenes, the book could have been amazing. As it was, though, the story was just okay for me.