I don't know why I am surprised. Dean Koontz has done this to me so many times I should not be shocked that I ended up disliking this book and gave it a 1.5 stars. Now I am wishing that I had left things alone after reading, You Are Destined to be Together Forever.The evolution of Odd. We don't have Odd running around using "Odd speak" that much. He only lapses into it a time or two, for the most part we have him acting like an actual grown up that has aged internally and externally due to the events of the past almost two years. I liked that Odd acknowledges he has transformed into someone that is hard and though he hates killing, knows it has to be done to protect the innocent. However his total willingness to die so he can be back with Stormy was mentioned like every couple of paragraphs.Return to Pico Mundo. I was happy to return to Pico Mundo. However, I was not thrilled that we don't have Odd visiting with his former friends like Terri and Rosalia. Even when Odd meets up with Chief Porter and Ozzie it is not a really happy reunion since Odd has returned from stopping the satanists/cultists from the first book from bringing about a bigger tragedy than the mall shooting that occurred. And Ozzie just worked my nerves the whole time. Apparently even feeling worried about Odd wasn't enough for him to stop eating his food (eyeroll).The plot. It zigs-zags all over the place. We have Odd trying to figure out what plans the bad guys are up to, while also trying to discover the meaning behind a dream he had the night before he returned to Pico Mundo, and is also stopping subsequent plots to harm others, along with trying to figure out who Annamaria is, what the Amaranth flower means, etc. the whole thing was just too much which shows since some things were just tossed there in the end that really didn't make a whole lot of sense based on the previous books.The pacing. Sometimes it is crisp, but towards the last 50 percent of the book it drags. I don't need several chapters describing Odd hiding and listening to people and/or him killing people either. I don't know what was going on there and if Mr. Koontz needed to pad or what. The beginning part of the book was moving at a pretty fast clip. The slow down makes no sense and started taking me out of the story. It also didn't help that in between every chapter in the present we have it go back to Odd's dream written in italics. A better idea would have been to start off with a prologue which was Odd's dream in it's entirety and then move into the present. Readers would get cued up by certain things as we were reading instead of having Odd say why this was in my dream every five minutes.The locations. The location of Pico Mundo didn't feel like the Pico Mundo we read about in books one and two. I think that was because we have Odd tracking down the bad guys and thwarting them that we don't get a sense of the town.The safe house where Odd stays at with the Bullocks was described quite well and I wish we had him interacting more with the Bullocks.The carnival returning was a bit much for me and by then if you didn't already guess the end before it shows up you do at that point.The other characters.The Bullocks. They just were not written consistently. At first, they seem to be pretty savvy people with a southern background of some sort and then they just turn full southern which was a bit much. They were cryptic about so many things and I was just sick of them by the end of the book. Since this is the last Odd Thomas book I wanted things explained. Not more questions or riddles, thank you.Edie Fischer. Seriously. We kind of sort of finally figure out what does the exclamation mean and it was just so dumb. She also still didn't answer much of anything for Odd and when she shows up and disappears again I just felt like it was a waste to even have her show up. It makes no sense at all. Why in the world didn't she and Annamaria stay? I guess I can throw up my hands and yadda yadda destiny, but it makes no strategic sense at all when you have Odd trying to stop something that has the opportunity to destroy an entire town. Do not even get me started at the reveal that Edie had knowledge of Stormy.Annamaria. UGH. I am so mad about the final ridiculous reveal of who Annamaria is that I wanted to kick something.The bad guys. They were just a non-entity. You don't get a sense of them since there is no big bad to thrawt. Just random evil people doing evil things. You needed to have at least one head bad guy or someone to give a face to the 'evil' that Odd is facing.The ending. The final reveals and the ending were so lackluster and disappointing. Everything was crammed in and not very well done at all. I read something today that mentions he may revisit Odd again and I am going to pass on that book. I really don't want to read about our fry cook anymore. I just wish that the ending had lived up to the beginning.And really there was so much that didn't work in the ending that I am going to include in a spoiler for those that really want to know.We all knew that Odd was going to die in this book. It has been hinted at from book two to now. However, the way he died throwing to stop toxic rabies was just...no. And than we have Annamaria coming to him and explaining that she is Jesus's grandmother?! What the heck was Dean Koontz thinking? I think many fans hoped and thought based on things that were said that she was Stormy reincarnated which would have been awesome. Totally turn the entire Odd is going to die on it's ear and have them be together forever. Instead we have Odd going into the afterlife and hey Stormy was totally right about the three lives thing (eyeroll).The reunion between Odd and Stormy was not passionate at all. She could have just been some random stranger that he met in the street. And now we have Stormy being all secretive about what their lives in "service" mean. No freaking thank you at all.I still don't get what fully blue means and I don't care.Having Odd writing his memoir from the other side and somehow sending it to Ozzie. Come the hell on. And what really gets me is that Ozzie includes his final chapter as if this thing was published and I smacked my forehead. He changes the name of Edie Fischer in this book and other books so that the bad guys don't find her. But you still mention her? Does he think that those truly evil can't read books? That they won't come capture him to torture him from more information about Edie and her organization?