Has anyone ever read a book so terrible that it actually pissed you off? To give you an idea of how much I disliked this book, I have read over 1500 books in my lifetime. Out of all of those, I have given maybe 1 or 2 other books 1/5 stars. Rating a book this low is an extremely rare occurrence for me.Yes, this book was that bad.Let's go through the positives and negatives, now, shall we? Prepare yourself, this review is going to be an extremely long rant.Negatives:First, this book is supposed to be horror.Where's the horror because I sure as hell don't see any!This book didn't even FEEL like a horror novel until the last few pages and by then it's too late to redeem yourself so I'm not even giving them credit for that. What's sad is that this book didn't even attempt to have any semblance of creepiness. It's like you didn't even try. When a reader picks up a horror novel, they want tension, creepiness, high stakes, and scares. There were no elements of a good horror novel in this. I don't even know how to classify this book because classifying this book as horror is insulting to the entire genre. The "scares" were just pathetic and sad.The second issue is the unoriginality. This was actually my biggest issue with this book, even more so than lack of scares.This was the most generic, unoriginal, sad excuse for a horror story I have ever witnessed.Not to mention it was boring as fuck. I would understand if this were the author's first horror novel. Then I would have blamed it on unintentional copying due to inexperience in the horror genre. But this author writes predominately horror, so she's clearly familiar with the genre. So why the unoriginality? The supernatural occurrences and weird going ons, were all things that have been done IN BASICALLY EVERY HORROR MOVIE ALREADY.Not one thing happened that I haven't already read before in a horror novel or seen before in a horror movie. Not one thing. This whole book was one giant copycat.I feel like I've read this book before even though I've never read this book before.If you want to write about child possession, an admittedly overused trope in horror, that is FINE and that isn't the problem here. Let me give you an example of a book that used an overdone trope but was executed perfectly.Behind Closed Doorsis a domestic thriller about a woman held captive and tortured by her new husband who turned out to be an evil little bastard. Has this idea been done to death already? Yes. Was this book still one of the most well written thrillers I've ever read? YES. Why? BECAUSE IT HAD ALL THE ELEMENTS OF A GOOD THRILLER. Tension, an emotional connection to the characters, a sense of urgency, a great plot, ALL THINGS THAT A GOOD THRILLER SHOULD HAVE. So Seed has no excuse.If a horror novel lacks originality, it can make up for it in other ways such as tension, scares, and memorable scenes or characters.Bottom line, it has to be at least remotely interesting and make the reader want to keep reading. This book was neither original nor interesting so what does it have? NOTHING. THIS BOOK HAS FUCKING NOTHING GOING FOR IT.The third issue is more of a personal thing. Yes, I acknowledge that this isn't the author's fault nor does this have anything to do with her writing; it's more of a personal thing. My pet peeve, BIGGEST PET PEEVE, is when they kill the dog in novels. Especially in horror novels. It actually is a trigger for me and it gives me high levels of anxiety and makes me really angry. Call it a stupid thing to get anxious about if you want, but I, being a pet parent, am really touchy when it comes to the topic of animals. In fact, if I had known about this I wouldn't have even read this shitty book to begin with. Again, this is a personal thing and has little to do with the author's writing but the reason why I am including this reason in my review is because I want to state that it IS POSSIBLE to write a situation like this in a tasteful manner. Let's go back to Behind Closed Doors as an example. That book also has a dog death in it but the dog situation was handled so tastefully that it actually didn't flare up my anxiety. WHICH I DIDN'T KNOW WAS EVEN POSSIBLE. In fact, Behind Closed Doors ended up being one of my favorite books I had read that year and I would recommend it to anyone. So yes, I admit I am extremely biased when it comes to the treatment of animals in books but don't just assume that I'm bashing this book just because they killed the dog. This author still could've handled this more tastefully and there are many other reasons why this book was terrible.Side note: I would like to dedicate this review to Nubs the dog, who deserved better than this. This one is for you Nubs. *moment of silenceMy fourth issue was the predictability. I guessed the ending from a mile away. Also, I could literally tell you everything that happened in this entire book in one paragraph because NOTHING SUBSTANTIAL HAPPENED for most of it. And I LOVE how the big "unveiling" at the end wasn't anything we didn't already know or figure out on our own. Oh joy! And the "big reveal" was described as something that "destroyed his world" as if it wasn't shit he didn't already know. Nice.Positives:lolSummary:This is the most generic, predictable, saddest attempt at horror I've ever witnessed. While I typically will still give 2 stars to books I hated (because I think 1 star is too harsh and I never give books 1 star) I gave this book 1 star because I am very defensive of the horror genre. So this book kind of hit a nerve for me. But hey, if any aspiring horror authors out there ever want to see an example of what NOT to do when writing horror, this book would be a great resource for you!In all seriousness, seasoned horror fans, don't waste your time.