Comanche Chief Tosawi reputedly told [Union General Philip] Sheridan in 1869, "Tosawi, good Indian," to which Sheridan supposedly replied, "The only good Indians I ever saw were dead."- Wikipedia----------------------------------------You hide in the herd. You wait. And you never forget.Payback’s a bitch, with antlers.Lewis, a Blackfeet, has lived off the rez for a long time. In his 30s, he’s a postal worker, with a beautiful, athletic wife, Peta, friends, a home, a life. An intermittent spotlight seems to be popping on in the house and shining on their mantel. He climbs a tall ladder to check it out and sees on his living room floor the carcass of an elk doe he had killed ten years ago. He still has her hide. Losing his balance, Lewis is plunging straight toward a likely death by skull intersecting brick, when Peta saves the day, tackling him out of harm’s way at the last second. It was not the first close encounter suffered by the crew of childhood friends who had gone out hunting elk where they had no right. His late friend Ricky had already received a very harsh and pointed reception from a large dark elk in the parking lot of a bar.Stephen Graham Jones- Image from Fiction UnboundThere were two other guys on that hunt, one in which they killed more elk than they could ever use, Gabriel Cross Guns and Cassidy. After following Lewis for a while, we track these men. Something else is tracking them, too. There was a particular element of that epic kill that created a monster, and vengeance is sought. I Know What You Did Last Decade.The POV shifts from third person when we are with Lewis, to that of the avenging elk when she is going after Gabe and Cass, then shifts back to third person for the big finale.This is a slasher book with a Native American touch. You’ll get enough gore to matter, but it is not the sort of viscera-fest favored by films with the words “saw” in their titles. But it does sustain the ethos, to the extent that there is one, of such entertainments, namely that the dark force coming after you is doing so in response to somethingyoudid. Yes, a vengeful she-elk monster is tracking down these Blackfeet guys for something they did, and her pursuit is relentless, in the same way that Jason, or Michael Myers, Jigsaw, Freddy Krueger, or Leatherface pursued the targets oftheirire. Antlers and hooves can definitely do mortal damage, just as well as metal-based weaponry. She is as impervious to death as the above-named sorts, so just keeps on keepin’ on, regardless. It makes for someveryscary scenes, particularly in an epic pursuit near the end. Definitely something to rev up the blood pressure.But there are other elements at work here as well. It is not merely a frightfest. Jones is giving us a look at Native life. Not a rosy, people-of-the-land idyllic vision. This is a world in which old trucks sit on cinder blocks in family yards, a world in which sweat lodges are small, three-person, makeshift tents, a world of orders of protection, and degraded expectations.There is guilt about having moved away from reservation life. Lewis has even married a Caucasian woman.The headline kicks up in Lewis’s head on automatic, straight out of the reservation: not the FULLBLOOD TO DILUTE BLOODLINE he’d always expected if he married white, that he’d been prepping to deal with, because who knows, but FULLBLOOD BETRAYS EVERY DEAD INDIAN BEFORE HIM. It’s the guilt of having some pristine Native swimmers…cocked and loaded but never pushing them downstream, meaning the few of his ancestors who made it through raids and plagues, massacres and genocide, diabetes and all the wobbly-tired cars the rest of America was done with, they may as well have just stood up into that big Gatling gun of history, yeah?As seen in the above quote, Lewis maintains a running wry commentary on his own actions with imagined self-deprecating newspaper headlines. INDIAN MAN HAS NO ROOTS, THINKS HE’S STILL INDIAN IF HE TALKS LIKE AN INDIAN. Not exactly ha-ha funny, but thereisa vein of humor throughout.There is also recognition of Native American stereotypes,Really, Lewis imagines, he deserves some big Indian award for having made it to thirty-six without pulling into the drive-through for a burger and fries, easing away from diabetes and high blood pressure and leukemia. And he gets the rest of the trophies for having avoided all the car crashes and jail time and alcoholism on his cultural dance card. Or maybe the reward for lucking through all that—meth too, he guesses—is having been married ten years now to Peta, who doesn’t have to put up with motorcycle parts in the sink…Jones applies genre tropes, likekilling a pet before going after its owner, or a young female taking on the beast. Where it breaks from the Jason/Mikey Myers physical form is in giving the monster the ability to shapeshift. The monster’s targets are not bad people. They are decent people who did a bad thing. And it is something that Lewis has suffered years of guilt over. It would have been an easy out to have written them all as dark-hearted souls. I particularly enjoyed a gem of a sporting contest, the biggest game of the year,that is a roundball version ofThe Devil Went Down to Georgia. It is riveting!I had one particular issue with the book. Why the time differential? Ricky is killed a year after Lewis leaves the rez, but the rest of the onslaught takes place much later. Thereisan explanation in the book, but I found it unpersuasive. Other than that, I’m good. Minor aside: the book was originally titledWhere the Old Ones Go. I can understand why it was skipped. Sounds like the latrine at the senior center. Next up wasElk-Head Woman, which is certainly descriptive, but might have been a bit too open to snarky intentional misinterpretations. FWIW, I am not sure the title they finally settled on is the best of all possible titles either, as the story is more about the misery that these Indians have brought on themselves than the misery inflicted on them by Eastern invaders. Not that I have anything better to offer.So, overall, this is a pretty good, substantive horror read, offering some spine tingles along with a portrait of a segment of Native American life. And some serious twists and gut-punches, as fear descends into madness, enough to generate out loud exclamations of “Oh, shoot!,” or something very like that. But no lost winks for me from this one, which is par for the course. But that is a very high bar, as it is exceedingly rare for horror books to keep me up. It’s thepoliticalones that do that best. But for most humans this should be plenty scary.Death is too easy. Better to make every moment of the rest of a person’s life agony.Review first posted – April 10, 2020Publication date – April 7, 2020 (what is on the spine of my ARE) or maybe May 19, 2020 (What shows up on the GR page for the book), or, who knows? Maybe July 14, 2020 (on Edelweiss and in Simon & Schuster’s digital catalog) - Looks like the last one is for real. Many books got pushed in this year of the plague.----------Trade Paperback -January 26, 2021I received this book from the publisher in return for a reasonable review, but I wonder, if they disapprove of what I have written, whether some years hence I might be pursued to a dark end by a vengeance-crazed editor, armed with a sheath of sharpened colored pens.And thanks to MC=============================EXTRA STUFFLinks to the author’spersonal,TwitterandFBpagesInterviews– The first two deal mostly withMongrels, but are still interesting-----Muzzleland Press -CUT MY FINGERTIPS, THEY BLEED TEXAS: AN INTERVIEW WITH STEPHEN GRAHAM JONES ON HIS NEW NOVEL MONGRELS- by Jonathan R-----from Westword -With Mongrels, This Is Stephen Graham Jones's Time to Howl- by Jason Heller-----Ghoulish - December 15, 2019 -Slashers with Stephen Graham Jones!- Max Booth – audio – 28:20-----Fiction Unbound – March 7, 2020 -Dead Dogs and Final Girls: An Interview with Stephen Graham Jones- by C.S. Peterson-----Los Angeles Review of Books – July 13, 2019 -Writing in the Shadow of “V”: Adventures in Speculative Fiction with Stephen Graham Jonesby Billy J. Stratton-----More2Read -Interview: Stephen Graham Jones on Writing, The Only Good Indians, and inspirationsby Lou PendergrastMy reviews of other Stephen Graham Jones books-----2016 -Mongrels-----2021 -My Heart is a ChainsawSongs/Music-----The Charlie Daniels Band -The Devil Went Down to Georgia-----D.A.D -Trucker- from the Special album – SGJ listened to this a lot when he began writing this novel----- D.A.D -Jonnie- dittoItems of Interest-----Electric Lit - November 27, 2019 -Being Indian Is Not a Superpower-----Philip Sheridan-----James Dickey -A Birth- one of the works that inspired SGJ-----Stephen Graham Jones - Crimereads - July 15, 2020 -Why Exposing Kids to Horror Might Actually Be Good for ThemParticularly in the world today, we need to learn the lesson that, while there is certainly evil in the world, it is possible to overcome it. I have always had a fondness for horror. When I was seven years old, my mother took me to seeThe Crawling Eye, a cheesy sci-fi/horror flick that I loved.The Tinglercame out when I was still seven, and I saw and loved that one too, maybe with my older brother. A few years laterMr Sardonicus. I can recall no trauma, although clearly I had mom’s DNA and enjoyment of horror films to support my interest. Jones makes a strong point about why it is important to stay the course while exposing your kids to these things. Well worth the reading.-----NY Times - 8/14/20 -‘We’ve Already Survived an Apocalypse’: Indigenous Writers Are Changing Sci-Fiby Alexandra Alter-----You might want to check out Jeffrey Keeten'sexcellent review