Damn you, Mr. Crouch! You sucked me in with “Pines”, kept me intrigued with “Wayward”, and then slapped me in the face with “The Last Town”Don’t get me wrong. I didn’t hate the book. I actually thought it was okay. And on its own it probably deserves a 3-star rating. The reason it gets a 2, however, is because of its potential. This book should have been awesome. It should have been a kick-ass finale to the Wayward Pines trilogy, but it wasn’t. Mr. Crouch could have ended the saga with a bang and instead ended it with a whimper, and it’s a damn shame.Let’s go back to “Pines”. I loved it. It was a fast-paced, entertaining, violent mystery with a few awesome scenes (the fetes and introduction to the abbies come to mind) and an explosive ending that I never saw coming. I thought it was a great book that didn’t need a sequel.And then “Wayward” came out…And I loved it. It advanced the story, let us see Ethan struggle with concealing the truth, introduced us to Adam Hassler (a man actually surviving outside of the fence? WHAT?!), and hinted at a second love triangle (between Adam, Ethan and Teresa, in addition to the one between Ethan, Teresa, and Kate) then, again, blew me away with a killer cliffhanger ending that forced me to read part 3. It was as if Mr. Crouch literally grabbed me by the throat and said, “You’re going to buy book 3!” and I gladly said, “Yes, Sir!”Then “The Last Town” came out, and it underwhelmed.The problems with this book are numerous, and I suspect they all stem from a single source. It’s clear to me Mr. Crouch was given a deadline that he simply could not meet without sacrificing the integrity of his novel, and sacrifice it he did. Just look at its length compared to books 1 and 2.“Pines”: 309 pages“Wayward”: 322 pages“The Last Town”: 285 pagesIt’s the runt of the litter, and by a full 24 pages! This is part 3, Blake (I’m calling you Blake from now on. Screw Mr. Crouch!). This is the finale. Everything that happened in books 1 and 2 has been building to this. This book should have been the longest of the three. Not the shortest. And certainly not the shortest by 24 pages. To be totally honest, this book should have had at least another 50 pages in it. There were two books worth of loose ends to tie up, Crouch (I’m sticking with just Crouch. Screw Blake!), and instead of actually tying them up, you gave us a rushed, half-assed ending that once read by your editor should have gotten you a quick slap in the face. Let’s dive in shall we?Hassler:In “Wayward”, we’re told Adam Hassler is still alive. My thought process upon learning this: “Ethan’s boss? No way! And he’s been living outside of the fence? And he’s in love with Ethan’s wife? Why is he outside of town? How has he been able to survive out there? Why is he headed back to the town now? What did he find out there?”The addition of Hassler to the story was brilliant. Knowing he was coming back to town for book 3 made me practically salivate over his eventual confrontation with Ethan and I was dying to know the answers to the above questions. And what were those answers? Let’s see:Why is he outside of town? Not sure. He was on a mission of some kind. What mission? I have no idea. It’s not made clear. Pilcher implies there was no mission and that he just wanted to get rid of Hassler. If that’s the case, why not just kill him? But there had to be an actual mission, right? Otherwise, why the hell would Hassler go outside in the first place? Wasn’t he the happiest he had ever been while living in Wayward Pines with Theresa and Ben? What could Pilcher have possibly told him to make him willingly leave Wayward Pines on a suicide mission outside? Did Pilcher force him to leave? If he did, again, why not just kill Hassler instead? And why did Hassler come back anyway? Was it because he found nothing? What made him decide he finally found nothing? And why did he wait so long to decide that? Dude, you had a beautiful woman and child waiting for you in Wayward Pines. Why would you stay away for three years? Couldn’t you have been gone for a few months instead? How long does it take to find nothing?Horrible character exchanges:Then there are the many potentially emotional points that Crouch just glosses over. Like when Alan finds out Pilcher murdered his daughter and is so enraged that he threatens to kill Pilcher. He and Ethan have this exchange.Alan: AHHHHHH! I’m gonna kill Pilcher!Ethan: No, I am.Alan: Okay.There is no way this exchange goes down this way from what we know about Alan. He should have been ready to rip Pilcher apart with his bare hands. He and Ethan should have practically come to blows over who gets to kill Pilcher. But they don’t because…I have no idea, and I don’t think Crouch does either.This happens again when everyone is hiding in the cave and Ethan tells Ben he is going to the arc.Ethan: I have to go Ben.Ben: (crying) But Dad, I don’t want you to go!Ethan: But I’m going to.Ben: Okay.Come on, Crouch! Give the kid a little more time to come to terms with his father’s suicide mission. Or don’t let him come to terms with it at all and force Ethan to leave with his son mad at him. Just make your characters act like real people, damn it!Characters acting like moronsHere a few things that just didn’t add up:When Ethan’s group makes it to the cave, it’s revealed some people are missing family members who were in other groups. In a crisis, why the hell would you separate from your family? Everyone was together at the fete, then Ethan revealed the truth, Pilcher opened the gate, and everyone stood around and talked about the truth. Sure, some people went home (with their families) but most stayed. So when the hell did so many families get separated? Why would they do that? Why would you not go into the same group and head for the tunnels together?Even when characters make the right decision, they do it for the wrong reason. Like when Ethan, Kate, and two other characters whose names I can’t remember head to the arc. They decide to avoid the tunnels and stay above ground. Ethan’s reasoning for this is so that if they are spotted, they can run. So you plan to outrun the four-legged abbies who are clearly faster than you? Wrong. You stay out of the tunnels because the abbies already found the tunnels and could still be down their feeding on the other groups.Also, did Crouch really force Hassler and Kate to be together in the end? Ugh.In conclusion, this book was bad. Though mildly entertaining, it was sloppily written and poorly edited. I really wish Crouch had more time to work on this one. It could have been great.