Thank you to Michael Neeb for providing me with a free copy in exchange for an honest review!3.5 starsI loved this book.I didn't expect to like it based on the cover. But hey, don't judge a book by its cover, right? This book totally reminded me of that Sirens story fromThe Vampire Diaries. It's pure gruesome horror. But there are some negatives.The thing that threw me off was how the characters didn't even seem to care when their friend died. They were so emotionless. I mean, I get that they were in a crazy situation, but come on, it wouldn't have hurt them to comfort Molly a little. She had just lost her husband for crying out loud. Tim should have been there for her, and at least he should have been thoughtful enough to have mentioned that Conner was long dead before he was infected by the magic. So when she beheaded the creature, she had helped Conner find peace or something. Tim should have manned up and taken some accountability, 'cause it was all his fault that they were there on that cursed island in the first place. At that point, it felt like Tim was just sacrificing his friends. I didn't like the main characters one bit. They just seemed so selfish, you know?Ok, well, let's talk about that ending. It came out of the blue. Like, why didn't Gwen use her powers earlier? Seriously, this ending... It was such a bummer when the side characters we actually cared about got killed off.And if the story was supposed to be about Gwen, then why didn't we get her POV? At least she would seem passably likeable then. So now all witches are evil, is that what the end of the book is saying? Really? But what about the ones who have families? Won't it be the same old story if Gwen goes on a killing spree and wipes everyone out? Someone is bound to survive that ordeal and seek revenge.Look, I don't wanna bring down the author or anything. I actually liked the plot and how the story flowed, right up until the end. Honestly, this book needed a lot more refinement in terms of the conclusion. Most of the plot about the witches was good, but then the ending came, and it made you question the relevance of it all.After reading my own review again, I realized that I didn't praise this book enough. I really feel this book needs to be recognized more. It was really engaging. Though fast-paced, I did not feel for even one moment that the story was lacking or the world-building was bad. I really loved how the backstories of the characters were woven together with the plot. I felt sorry for the side characters and even the villains, but it soon became apparent how truly evil the villains had become.Adding adventure and a survival plot on an island is cool and all, but it's gonna be pretty tragic if there are no survivors. So I just don't get why everyone had to die for just one person to make it out alive. And the thing is, as a reader, I've come to really dislike Gwen's character. Seriously, I can't get over the fact that the characters I was rooting for ended up dead. And yes, I'm still referring to the side characters here.So yeah,I couldn't stop thinking about this book long after I finished it.I would love to read more books by this author.