Sabin and his human servant, Dominic, approach Anita with a problem. Sabin tried to go vegetarian for the love of his life, but now he's rotting. Can Anita help?Sure, no problem! Only...Anita promptly drops that thread, and it's only a sheer coincidence (though a rather clever one, I'll admit) that it ever comes back into the story.Anita is dating both Jean-Claude and Richard--supposedly because "She was forced to date Jean-Claude", but honestly, we all know she actually wanted to, because she's been lusting after Jean-Claude's "lovely face" and abs since the beginning. Only Richard doesn't want sex until he's changed into his wolf form in front of her.Sure, no problem! Only...Anita is being killed, so we have more important things to deal with, such as being not dead. After an attempt on her life at her apartment, Anita goes to stay with Richard. Oh, and she has to leave to go on a very public date with Jean-Claude, because if she stayed in safety with Richard, she'd be worrying about him, and with Jean-Claude amidst a billion people--oh, f@#$, it makes no sense, just ride with it. Oh, and Anita wears a super short black dress that barely conceals her butt. Why does she wear sleazy clothes with Jean-Claude and not with Richard? Because she believes wearing slutty clothes with Richard will lead to sex. Riiiiiiight...And since Anita can never have a moment's rest, once she's on the date with Jean-Claude at Dance Macabre, Damien tries to seduce a woman against her will. Good thing Anita and her gun are there, because we know that NO WOMAN can ever stand up for herself without Anita around.Oh yeah, and Anita is almost killed again. So she has to kill someone, which means down to the station for an interrogation, which is interrupted by Dolph, who, yes, you guessed it, has a super disgusting crime scene for Anita to pour over. The dead body is Robert, one of Jean-Claude's vampires and Monica's (AKA Horrible Slut that Anita hates but still hangs around with) husband.From there, we have the truly interesting part: Anita, Richard, and Jean-Claude forming the Triumvirate. I don't remember WHY they decided to do that (I think it had to deal with the Richard-Marcus power struggle in the pack), but it was pretty damned cool. And that leads to zombies and vampires being raised, so several chapters are devoted to people arguing about how to deal with that.And so on, and so forth until we get to the final scene where there is a Big Fight, Anita kills a lot of people, and everything ties in a neat bow.Like with most Anita books, I have mixed feelings about this entry. There were parts I legitimately liked. The Triumvirate for one was pretty interesting. I also was interested to see how Anita would heal Sabin, and wanted to know how the werewolf power struggle would turn out.But as usual, the Anita books come with their own set of problems. Anita continues to be a jerk (such as begrudgingly going to her "friend" Catherine's party). She continues to spend more time talking about how "lovely" Jean-Claude is than giving us a reason why we should believe she is in love with him. And probably the worst is Anita's betrayal of Richard. I don't know how spoilerish I should get, but let's just say that I have no idea (other than author overwrite) how these two are going to stay together after what happens. Sure, it's not just Anita's fault, but she certainly didn't help matters.LKH continues to pile on heaps of plot until the original plot becomes buried, and then the end focuses on how to bring together the 30 plotlines that LKH has drug up. We never get a moment's peace in these books; it's always Anita running from one crisis to another. Anita doesn't do much investigating or work; the villains are just stupid and expose themselves at the end (and not necessarily THAT way). The first, and thus far, only, sex scene in this series was so boring, I kept tuning out the poor narrator.And the mountains of clothing descriptions! Ugh! Why does every male in these books wear painted on jeans? Don't they have problems with their, um, equipment? Why does Anita, who hates dressing up, get into so many stripperish costumes "against her will"?And for once, instead of addressing some weird building (I have no idea why LKH does that with the titles of the books), "The Killing Dance" actually refers to lyncanthropy.Though it seemed to last forever, this wasn't the worst of the Anita books I've read so far. I'm still no fan of the series, but there are some pretty interesting developments made in this book and I am definitely eager to see how it progresses. After a bit of a break. I think I need a bit longer of an Anita reprieve this time.