This is going to be so hard for me to rate. I was really engrossed for much of the story and I was sure I had a solid four-star book in my hands. There were even some five-star worthy scenes. But then it started dipping dangerously into that two-star area... For the most part it was a good, solid, read, but there were just some things I didn't like. At times I wished that the author had gone a different direction and there were two characters in particular that didn't ring true to me when all was said and done. But then JM pulls a pretty solid twist out of the bag at the end that was really well done and not at all cheesy or lame. And I'm not much one for twists lately so if there's a twist and I like it, it really means it's a very good twist. But then something happens at the very end that really let me down. So you see my predicament. Anyway, full review to come once I hammer all this out and arrive at a rating.Ok, I'm ready-ish to review. And I better do it now before I start forgetting things. There was lots of good. The prose was good. It set a mood. There were sympathetic characters. This story was at its best when there were still lots of questions. JM was able to keep the suspense high for much of the book. My favorite scene was this one:When Ruthie goes to Candice's house and it looks perfect, but then she realizes that everything is broken and messed up in some way and she feels like she needs to get out of there. That was my 5 star scene.But there was some not-so-good. I didn't believe this character:Candice. The gun was an unwelcome development for me. It made all the characters stop being themselves and just start reacting to the gun. That was a MAJOR bummer. JM was doing so well up to that point. I was really surprised she went that route and kind of destroyed her momentum. THIS did not ring true to me AT ALL:Auntie was the vengeful killer? Huh? She was the one who was able to see the big picture. She loved Sara. She saws her future. She knew her intentions. So it made absolutely NO SENCE to me that she would kill Gertie. That was lame, lame, lame, lame, lame in my opinion. I thought there were so many better avenues she could have taken. There were so many other possibilities for who killed Gertie. That was probably the lamest. That was my 2 star (and now that I'm writing this, I'm thinking 2 stars is generous) moment. But then JM pulls out this twist that really was a good twisty thing to pull:As it turned out, it wasn't Sara who died, and she continued to live in the cave and take care of Gertie. However, even after JM pulls me back in a little, she leaves me completely unsatisfied with this truly unsatisfying ending:Ruthie, who to me was the most sympathetic character, decides she's going to spend the rest of her life placating this little ghost girl in the cave instead of leaving and living her life. Wouldn't it be a much stronger ending if she decided to buck that lame idea of her mother's and peace out, leaving the question of what would happen to the town if Gertie goes unchecked? Yes, yes it would.Oh man, you guys, now that I've finally hashed all that out I feel almost like 3 stars is one star too many. But I'll air on the side of generosity and stick with 3. It was a good read for much of the book. JM had me engaged. At least the entire first half of the book was very good. This one is so tough to rate. Depending on how you react to all these ins and outs could dramatically change your rating, because the prose itself is compelling and the story moves quickly. But that's my review and I'm sticking to it. Most likely, I'm sticking to it. Okay, 3 stars. ...yup. 3 stars.I think.