The Void is set 150 years in the future and takes place in space. That makes me inclined to want to read it as a science fiction novel, as that is a genre I am well-read in and comfortable with. That would be a mistake, however, as The Void isn't a work of science fiction, it is a horror novel that happens to be set in space. This is an important distinction, as the goals of a science fiction writer and a horror writer are not the same. It is not very successful as science fiction, but I think it may be successful as horror. It is a little hard for me to judge it on that basis, however, as I don't read a lot of horror, so I am less familiar with the genre conventions and have less knowledge of the canon to compare it to.There will be spoilers in this review.It takes place in 2169. Humans are traveling through warp space and have colonies and trading outposts scattered around. Because warping space and traveling through it is too weird and horrific for the human mind to experience and remain intact, people are rendered unconscious for that part of their trip. The problem is that they have horrible, frightening, incredibly real dreams, and have the same dream every time they warp. Occasionally someone will go insane or die in the warp process. Our protagonist is Aidan Connor, a ship's navigator, who is the sole survivor of his ship's destruction. He is found, injured and drugged unconscious, floating in space in an escape pod weeks after his ship was destroyed. He has no memory of what happened or what caused the ship to destruct.He is able to get hired on for the maiden voyage of a cargo ship called the Chronos. They are bound for one of the more outlying colonies, and along the way they stumble upon a derelict ship that is about to be swallowed by a black hole. They investigate, at first concerned for the crew, and then with the thought of salvaging the ship. But creepy, malevolent creatures are lurking on the ship, in the darkness, and the crew of the Chronos are going to have to face their dreams in real life and try to save humanity while they're at it.As I said, as a science fiction novel this book just doesn't work. There are way too many things that we are just told, that if you think about it don't make much sense, or seem too arbitrary and contrived. For instance, the computers and engine of the derelict ship were destroyed by one of its crew before her death, and Aiden and his very capable lady sidekick conclude that they can't be repaired, but then someone else manages to get everything operational again very quickly with no explanation of how this was done. There are lots of things like that that don't make a lot of sense if you give them much thought.Further, the crew aren't very convincing as residents of the future. Some of what we are told of their lives and experiences sound very much set in the here and now (one crew member is a fan of the New England Patriots, who have recently won the Super Bowl--it would be more believable if football were different then, if the team had moved cities, if the game were different--I really doubt that it will remain unchanged for 150 years) or even kind of old-fashioned, even in our current time (the character whose mother went crazy after bleeding a lot during childbirth, for instance). Plus they are listening to the Beatles, the Beach Boys, and Lynyrd Skynyrd. The characters read like Baby Boomers, not people having adventures in space in the future.But as a work of horror? I kind of bought it (keeping in mind I don't read a lot of horror). The story did a fairly effective job of showing characters who are feeling overwhelming dread and fear throughout. Most importantly, it hooked me and kept me reading. I would have gulped it down in one sitting except that I ran out of time and had to set it down just a couple of chapters shy of finishing it. However, when I went back to the beginning and re-read, I found a lot of problems catching my attention.For one thing, there is head-hopping. We switch from one person's point of view, over to someone else, and back again in the span of a few sentences. That was really distracting to me. There is some weird punctuation that caught my eye, too, especially not putting in a quote mark at the beginning of a paragraph of dialogue if the same person is speaking as in the previous paragraph. But there were also bigger problems of continuity. For instance, the captain of the Chronos calls everybody to a meeting, which should have been five people, and yet two people were never mentioned and didn't say anything (and I don't believe they would have been silent had they been in attendance), making me wonder if they were even there, or if "everyone" wasn't actually everyone.Worse, there was the matter of sleeping quarters. At the beginning of their voyage, a crewman says to a passenger: "Sorry about the accommodations but this is a freighter, not a passenger ship. Only the captain and the navigator get their own cabins. Even the ship's doctor is stuck back here with the rest of us." And yet later one of the passengers apparently has her own cabin, and later yet the captain tries to get the passengers to return to the passenger quarters, even though we have been told there are no passenger quarters, only a crew compartment. Though the author is ultimately responsible for what they wrote, still I think the publisher may have failed Talley a bit, as this sort of thing could have been caught and fixed in editing.I realize that in horror it is sometimes better not to describe things too much, so that the reader can fill in the details from their own imagination. But sometimes I needed more detail. Such as this part: "At first he thought he was imagining it, the thing, dragging a body behind it. Pulling it along by one leg, as the arms hung limply behind." We never get any description (that I could find) of what "the thing" was. A robot? A living creature? A ghost? I have no idea, as we aren't told. I don't need detailed descriptions, but I need some clue what I'm supposed to be visualizing.So The Void is a little rough, but it's actually a pretty entertaining read. It's got characters whose safety you care about, creepy creatures talking to them in the dark, people dying gruesomely, and the safety of humanity hanging in the balance. I would read another novel by Talley without hesitation.