Blood Gospel – overall 4 stars.I have seen mixed reviews on Blood Gospel and, I’ll be honest, I don’t understand all of the negative comments. I have some idea of what may be affecting those readers and I’ll mention it through this review. Having said that, I thought it was good. I liked it and I’ll be looking for the second book of this series.4-4 1/4 stars.Overview(not synopsis).Because there may be some spoilers involved, I’m going to shy away from giving a “Synopsis.” I’ll protect some information by spoiler tags. Generally this is an Urban Fantasy, that fits well in what we are used to in a James Rollins created story world (spec ops, scientific mysteries of historical significance, super secret shadow organizations etc.). Having said that, it would be a mistake (a tragic mistake on some levels) to believe that this is a “Rollins” novel and that Rebecca Cantrell was just a rider on it. It would also believe that Rollins is a ‘non-participant’ author loaning his name to a project. Rollins is very much a participant in the writing of this story and Cantrell’s influence has definitely turned this into something that is noticeably different than James Rollin’s other works. Since I’m a male reader of Action Adventure Novels, I presumed, prior to reading that Rollins is the bigger name here. Having said that, if I were a female reader of Horror (Urban Fantasy) and Y/A books, I might believe that Cantrell is the star and Rollins is piggybacking on her work to break into a new genre. So, I feel pretty safe in saying that this book likely has some similarity with their other books, and, even more likely will have some noticeable differences. Perhaps this is why some people have not expressed the same satisfaction with this story that I have, they expected something more like what they were used to (and love) from these authors.I have not read anything from Rebecca Cantrell, so, for me, it’s about what’s different between this book and Rollin’s other novels. In this book, you get that same depth of background research that is all over Sigma Force and Rollin’s other stand alone stories. You get the same blend of the unexplained phenomenon mixed with a rich understanding of historical events along with the sinister shadow organizations trying to manipulate the keys to ruling the world. Instead of the over the top action sequences that start a little past midway and keep rolling and building like a mushroom cloud from an atomic test in the Bikini Island, you get close quarters combat that is personal to the characters and much more one against one, even when it’s centered in a larger battle. Rollins has always tried to tie threads between past events, villains and heroes, but those tended to almost always appear superficial or irrelevant to the story. With Cantrell in the picture, there is a much better job of managing the integration of past and present events with the main characters and we get less of the greater meaning to the world on a “macro-scale” and more of those ties that are more significant and personal to the characters involved. Most Rollins books tend to be “Hero by committee” where a group of characters have major roles each in how things turn out with two or three that look more like Spok, Kirk and Scotty (Star Trek reference, hang with me). In Blood Gospel, we have three protagonists, vying for top billing and, rather than each part of some sub-plot or another on their own, they are all tangled up with one core story. So, if I were a James Rollins “FAN(atic),” I might be disappointed because the sense and feel of this book is more what you get with an Urban Fantasy (or Horror) than with the wide open pedal to the metal Action Adventure story we usually associate with Rollins. I’m not sure how Rebecca Cantrell fans will see this story, but I’m betting that if you made a mark in the center of Rebecca Cantrell’s story worlds, and one in James Rollin’s story worlds, drew a line between them that halfway down that line from either end is where this story resides, in its own world or a hybrid of both styles. It’s likely there is fodder enough for both to say “meh, it’s not Cantrell,” or, “meh, it’s not like his (Rollins) other books.”There’s a saying, “resentments are unfulfilled expectations.” The less you come into this book with an expectation of what you’ll get, the more you’ll be pleasantly surprised by what is like those things that your favorite author (of the two) are known for in Blood Gospel and find those things that are different cast in an enjoyable and interesting light. This is more “personality (and personal history) driven” than “event (and world history) driven.” The plot can be followed from the inside out, rather than from the outside in as in Action/Adventure Novels.My general impressions: Blood Gospel is an Urban Fantasy. It may have some parts of it that include exciting Action/Adventure Elements (I bet Rollins loves those Ducati Attack Motorcycles…I do), but, at its core, it’s a Horror Novel or more accurately an Urban Fantasy with a strong historical thread woven into a complex Urban Fantasy Plot. To me, it’s a winning combination. My favorite “UrbanFantasyMonster Butt-kickin’ Novel, Monster Hunter International, is really an Action Adventure Story with Fantastic elements, or a Werewolf disguised as a genetically altered and enhanced, hybrid, man/attack dog’s clothing. Blood Gospel is a Horror/Urban Fantasy Novel that allows itself to be advertised as having ties to the action adventure world, but has its own unique identity.This is Katherine Neville’s “Eight” with Vampires and silver bullets fired from sub machine pistols. I would not have thought that “toning down” Rollins’s free ranging action sequences, that seem to go through osmosis doubling in size with every page, would make a story better before I started reading it but, at least for this story, I think that it did. I also believe that Rollins’s sense of perpetual motion in a story helped this one break out of the emotional romantic tail chase that some Urban Fantasy novels go through (or Horror).I also like the depth of back story here which involved mixing some unique elements into a generally traditional interpretation of lions and tigers and bears (Oh my!) or in this case,  werewolves and vampires and God (Oh my!) better known as “fantasy elements” with real historical events that have some hard to explain or unexplained things about them. I thought the “blast from the past” or this more traditional approach to the supernatural was refreshing since the modern storytelling world is going many different directions with horror and supernatural/occult story themes. A more traditional supernatural side allowed there to be a strong traditional, religious or spiritual side to things that actually enhanced the story, rather than making it less believable or intolerable due to message. I mean, don’t get me wrong, this isn’t the story of a man and a woman on a spiritual journey that we should get the meaning of living through God out of, yet, the general plot and story themes supported (demanded) the acceptance of traditional, religious (Catholic) beliefs. People tend to wonder why lots of Christian writers like Urban Fantasy elements, for me, it’s because they demand the agreement to believe, at least for story purposes, that God, Jesus and Heaven exist and, in Blood Gospel, it’s served in a dish that’s palatable to even the most existential non-believer.CharactersRuhn – Loved this guy. I loved the conception of the Sanguinst Tradition that comes with him. Loved the idea that redemption is possible and love the idea that, no matter how bad the acts that we have committed, or caused to be committed, that, given enough time working on amends, anything can eventually be forgiven. I love the “fallen Priest” concept and found this to be, not the most likeable (certainly not) but, for me, the most interesting of the bunch. Lots of enternal conflict, lots of temptations and desires at play, lots of doubt, and self-doubt, lots of bitter sourness and, lots of smarts. I think his struggles with his relationship with Erin was a bit muddled, and that helped in some places, but hurt in others and they (Cantrell and Rollins) made us wait too long for his relationship with Jordan Stone to become stronger. At the end of the story, Jordan and Ruhn are going different directions and, no accounting of those differences has happened (yet). Very Dark, very Interesting and Complex character.Erin – I liked Erin. She was well designed. She had a tragic back-story that sometimes came across as awkward but explained much about her role in the overall plot. As I saw it, Erin developed into “the main character,” even though Jordan Stone and Ruhn get equal billing. I also liked how both writers did not let her become a clinging vine, or helpless heroine, better known as “the damsel in distress.” In fact, in one of the opening action scenes she plays the helpless heroine and actually makes a conscious decision not to be that way, and though she was physically “less capable” than her male counterparts, she was intellectually equal to Ruhn, with more “human insight” and ahead of Jordan. (but we already knew from the opening scenes with her.) I also like that she resolved her issues with faith in the course of the story. We’re not sure where Jordan’s faith lies, and Ruhn has his own issues where faith is concern but we get to see Erin “come to believe” based on events, and, be rewarded for that faith. I’m not a big religious fanatic, nor am I a loud mega-phone lawyer toting atheist, I just like stories to shake off fears of how they are precieved and stay true to form, true to the plot they are following. Good for them! (that’s what you get with seasoned, veteran writers.)Jordan Stone – Wow, a rollins story with male eye candy, really? Who’d have thunk it? G.I. Joe meets Ken. Compared to the conflicted Ruhn and the self-doubting agnostic Erin, Jordan was the eye candy. Tall blond haired blue-eyed hunk of Grade A Male…gun oil for cologne and a shining, reassuring smile that sparkled, of course he’s special forces too, even sensitive, because, most special forces guys have that touchy-feely side. I bet he even sweats testosterone and pees napalm. Obviously my favorite character (not). It’s strange how “out of place” a James Rollins Action Figure is in a story with a complex heroine and conflicted co-hero isn’t it?I’m okay with Jordan Stone. I think he’ll appeal to female readers more than male readers (he is a “hot” hard bodied male with a sensitive side and a brain, should he chose to use it). I just think what as rich as Ruhn turned out to be, and as potent as Erin became, he faded in importance in the story. He had all the grace and charm of a guard dog, complete with the sweet face and hang dog eyes. I’m surprised that Erin didn’t slap him! …okay, not that surprised, he was a nice guy, but, I hope in the next book, that he gets to grow out of his stereotypical action hero shell and become more human and less G.I. Joe meets Lassie.Having voiced my problems, I will say, that he doesn’t detract from the story. Instead, he runs the risk of becoming supporting cast for Ruhn and Erin if he doesn’t get some growth in the next book. I can live with him as he. Jordan’s not a spoiler, just a character with some unrealized potential to make the story better.The Villainy – I’m not going to get too deep into the villains because I don’t want to spoil, but, in the tradition of Urban Fantasy/Horror, the Villainy is almost more interesting than the hero brood, if decidedly more deadly and less pleasant to be around. I liked all of them, though the Villainess, clearly stands out as “the” best bad girl in a long time and, I’m betting that her namesake turns out to be as complicated and interesting as she did…next book though, I guess. I’m not ready to go “Seichan who?” yet, and she was a heroine mostly, but, I liked the bad guys, even the grimwalds had character.I’m also a BIG fan of anyone who can figure out how to use Rasputin as a villain! What a rich character vein in history this Gregori Rasputin turned out to be?Supporting Cast – (Heroes) an extension of Ruhn mostly. They were like the supporting cast in the Sigma Force Novels or Rollins stand alones, save one thing, that rich back story that comes with Ruhn and those like him. I hope we get to see Nadia again…A hot warrior woman who wears leather and uses a whip and drives a Ducati Attack Motorcyle! What’s not to like? (And she had some moments that let me know there’s a lot of potential in her for a bigger role in future stories. Though, unlike Jordan, I think she was used well and this was a hint of things to come, rather than a lack of development.)World BuildingBetter than expected. Rollins super-complicated style mixed with the greater focus on main characters as in a Horror Novel (Cantrell’s influence I’m guessing) made a really rich and interesting supernatural world. I loved the fantasy/paranormal elements and how they were designed and fit into a history common to our own. I liked the traditional paranormal figures that had their own unique twists to things.Overall – 4 to 4 ¼ stars.No warnings of note. There are some scary things. It’s darker than Rollins Novels tend to be, but the violence is acceptable for Television, and sexy characters, little to no sex (though there were some sexual themes) but likely not to “hot” for Y/A (though this is a warning, not a recommendation for Y/A). Combat is more personal and therefore different than the macro combat scenes in action adventure but, generally, good story!