When the end is near will you know it? Will signs appear to show it? And what sort of end will it be? Ice or fire? Conflagration? Land consumed by an angry sea? And what if there’s uncertainty? What ifthisis not the result ofthat, but just the way things are, under no one’s control to cause or prevent? And if there is no control, what is the role of those who speak on behalf of an unseen power? Do they suffer from confusion, perhaps delusion? Can we take them at their word? What if they insist we go along with their intrusion, even though we’ve reached a very different conclusion? Lines are drawn when the mad demand our subjugation. What sort of god could allow such things and still insist on adoration?Paul Tremblay- image from Litreactor.comWenling (Wen) will be eight years old in a few days. She and her two daddies, Eric and Andrew, are away from it all, up from Cambridge, at a cabin in northern New Hampshire, near the Canadian border.Her dads chose this place because there would be no Wi-fi or cell reception so they could unplug and it would be just the three of them hanging out, swimming, talking, playing cards or board games without any digital distractions.Peace and quiet, no nearby neighbors, plenty of grasshoppers. Wen is outside collecting some in a jar, to study. She is even giving them names, and making sure to pick smaller ones that will not damage themselves on the jagged edges of the air holes she’s poked in the metal lid. Out of nowhere a very large man appears, Leonard.He might be taller than anyone she has ever met, and he’s as wide as a couple of tree trunks pushed together.He is soft spoken and seems kind, even helps her collect some specimens. But Leonard is (like theBlues Brothers) on a mission from god. He has three other people with him.Your dads won’t want to let us in, Wen, but they have to. Tell them they have to. We are not here to hurt you. We need your help to save the world. Please.Well, in that case, sure, come on in…or not. Wen, alarmed, runs to tell her dads. The four insist on entering. The dads are determined to keep them out, and the siege is on.Image from ZD NetAn apocalypse is coming and these four are both heralds and, potentially, agents of prevention. Were the voices they all heard some common mental illness, an alien intrusion, or truly a sign from you-know-who? That the world seems to be going to hell quickly in a dramatically large handbasket lends them some credence, but what they are asking is unthinkable.Kristin Cui as Wenin the filmKnock at the Cabin- image from Horror ObsessiveTremblay has written detective novels, scores of short stories and a few horror books, all while keeping his day job, schoolteacher. Perhaps because of having to deal with adolescents at workandat home, he is fond of horror story tropes. InA Head Full of Ghostshe became one with the demonic possession tale. For a later work,Disappearance at Devil’s Rock, he considered what sort of things would most terrify him personally. And the winner wasmissing child, every parent’s nightmare. This time he took on another favorite source of terror.‘How would I do a home invasion novelI’dlike to read?’I guarantee you have not read one like this one before.Image from JoeCruzMM.files.wordpress.comThe intent doesn’t matter much if you do not care about those in the home being invaded. No problem. Wen is edible, and her daddies are a very human couple, with affection and edges reasonably distributed. Details of their lives make you care for them more and more. And you will have cause for concern, as they are facing very real, very existential immediate peril.Abby Quinn as Sabrina, Nikki Asuka-Bird as Adrienne, Dave Bautista as Leonard, and Rupert Grint as Redmondin the filmKnock at the Cabin- image from IMDBThere are plenty of elements in common with the usual home invasion horrors. Wondering if your invaders are nuts, fearing for your life and the lives of your loved ones, trying to figure out ways to get the better of the baddies. What is different is that the home invaders do not seem to be evil people, despite the most definitely evil-looking scythe-like weaponry they tote. (When the going gets seriously tough, the seriously tough get going to FourHorsemenOutfitters.com, your goto provider for your end-times needs. Tribulation-free ordering guaranteed) Leonard, the leader, seems particularly reasonable, a gentle giant, nice even. They might be insane, but what if they are not? There are reasons offered to consider the latter possibility. The other three are definitely equipped with good sides too, but a bit less manifestly than their leader.Study for the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, 19th century- by John Martinimage from the Indiana University Art Museum Provenance ProjectAny fine meal is composed of a range of ingredients. Here we have the terror of the invaded, the unexpected facets of the invaders and a big, overarching scare. Is it real or not? But there are other items spicing up this read. There is consideration of faith, religion, and how far one will go in service of one’s beliefs. It is tough not to see the four horsemen imagery in the four invaders, but there are other, more subtle spices at play. A motif ofsevenspermeates. There are sundry references to other novels that offer some food for thought. Tim O’Brien’sLake of the Woodsis one. There are others. Do we believe what we see or see what we believe?Image from Sleepyhollow.wikia.comThis book will keep you guessing. Is this the end of the world? Or maybe just a potential end for some. Tremblay offers an explanation, but can we accept it? The ambiguity provides a constant tension from the first encounter to the last page. There may not be a mysterious voice telling you to get your hands on this one as soon as you can, and read it as quickly as possible. But whether you hear one or not, this will be one of the best reads of the summer and you do not really know how much time you have left.Review first posted – 3/16/18Publication date – 6/26/18=============================EXTRA STUFFLinks to the author’spersonal,TwitterandFBpagesHe has a story collection coming out in 2019, and his next novel in 2020.An excerpt- from Entertainment WeeklyI sure hope Tremblay doesn’ttake a shovelto my review. But if he does, I hope he tapes it.Interviews-----In thisvideo interviewput out by his publisher, Morrow, Tremblay talks mostly about two earlier novels, but gets into how this one came about, offering insight into his approach – 27:50-----Providence College – an audio interview at his alma mater -From Fractions to Fiction- 42:15-----Excerpts from a Locus Magazine interview – print -Paul Tremblay: Aftermath-----Audio interview –Friday Morning Coffee– June 16, 2017 – with Daniel Ford – 21:01-----Print interview at LitReactor.com -10 Questions with Paul Tremblay- 6/2/15 – by Keith RawsonOther-----Book Studio 16is a Harper department that produces a video series in which someone whose opinion I value above all speaks about a handful of (usually) upcoming books. At -24.19 to -18:18, the queen of the show talks aboutThe Cabin at the End of the World, but I suggest you watch the entire vid. (about 34 minutes) You might find even more books to add to your ever-growing TBR.The Harper Book Queen included a bit on this book in herTBR TuesdaysFB live broadcast from 7/31/18 - at 9:50-----Trailer forKnock at the Cabin, which is a really dumb renaming of the book - directed by M. Night Shyamalan - release date Feb 3, 2023