Please use the ‘look inside’ feature and see the introduction with book covers, blurbs, and book trailers.Seventh Mark by W.J. MayBeautiful Rouge has little knowledge about her past, she has questions but has never tried to find the answers. Everything changes when she befriends a strangely intoxicating family. Siblings Grace and Michael, appear to have secrets which seem somehow connected to Rouge.All secrets have a cost and Rouge’s determination to find the truth may force her and Michael apart. It can only lead to trouble…or something even more sinister.*Warning: There are werewolves in this story... and they are not friendly.*** Warning #2: This book will end on a cliffhanger. Book 2 picks up where this book ends.**Crush by Chrissy PeeblesThe Crush Saga Book Trailer: http://youtu.be/4eMF8KXEUc4His precious touch could prove deadly…Taylor is shocked to learn that Big Bear Lake isn't just glittering lakes, towering pines, and breathtaking mountains...there's more...way more than meets the eye.Will Taylor dive into a paranormal world she knows nothing about? To be with the one her heart can’t live without?Blur by Kristen MiddletonWarning- This book contains some language, violence, and sexual situations recommended for ages seventeen and older.Danger lurks in the dead of night...Seventeen year old Nikki and her twin brother, Nathan, move to the small town of Shore Lake to start over after their mother is brutally attacked. When a missing teenager washes up on shore during their first night at the cabin and there are whispers of vampires in Shore Lake, Nikki begins to realize that there are things roaming in the darkness that are far more sinister than what they left behind in the city.Vampire in Denial by Dale MayerBlood doesn't just make her who she is...it also makes her what she is.Like being a sixteen-year-old vampire isn't hard enough, Tessa's throwback human genes make her an outcast among her relatives. But try as she might, she can't get a handle on the vampire lifestyle and all the...blood.Once again, Tessa finds herself torn between the human world and the vampire one. Will blood own out? Can she make peace with who she is as well as what?Warning: This book ends with a cliffhanger! Book 2 picks up where this book ends.The Zombie Chronicles by Chrissy PeeblesBOOK TRAILER: http://youtu.be/ociUHiL1g70*This is a young adult book, post-apocalyptic, horror series.WARNING: All your questions won't be answered in book 1.Warning: Mild violence. For mature teens or older.Val was bitten by a zombie and now she’s scheduled for lethal injection. Breaking all the rules, eighteen year old, Dean Walters snags an experimental serum. But it can’t be tested until Val turns into a zombie: something authorities won’t allow. Her execution is scheduled to happen before transformation is complete, giving Dean only hours to break her out.When their helicopter crashes straight into the heart of Zombie Land, his rescue mission becomes a fight for survival…and giving up on Val is NOT an option.Zombie Games (Origins) by Kristen MiddletonAn Amazon Bestselling Zombie Series!Seventeen-year-old Cassandra Wild thought that living in the chaos of her mother's home daycare and dealing with new feelings for Bryce, her martial arts instructor, was a struggle until her world turned upside down.