DAMN!! Well thankfully I am typing this review because I am speechless. This book is up there as one of my favourites. I had been drawn to try one of McFadden's book as I have seen so many great reviews on so many different books of hers on GR lately. Well now I know why all the buzz. More have been ordered :)I want to add that I have sat awhile prior to reviewing this book. As I thought about it I saw one review by a supposed psyche nurse saying what a bunch of crap this book was. Well for sure liberties were taken here. It is kind of flawed in a major way as well and yet I still loved it. I mean who wouldn't be apprehensive as is our main character about spending a night in a locked in psyche ward of a hospital. It's got creepy written all over it.And back to that negative review which I could not comment on as they are to popular on GR to allow for my piddly comment. Note to all in the prior's boats I do not ever like anything I cannot comment on so hah!! like I matter :)So I kept thinking of that nurses review and it hit me. Perhaps they just don't know how a violent psyche patient gets delivered to them because when they have gone through the process they are delivered in a catatonic/zombie like state to the psyche floor and are no longer any problem at all.So let me enlighten everyone as most of you know I am a retired police officer. So a family member enters into a state of psychosis. Just flat out irrationality. Possibly seeing devils, likely talking jibberish or at a 100 miles an hour. The family is clearly distressed and calls the police. Police then attend and try to rationalize with a clearly irrational person who is now so very scared that the police are there, especially if he has gone through this before. The police seeing this poor victim in the state they are currently in have now kind of been handcuffed by the desperate family only seeking help. The police clearly seeing that this victim of psychosis is a clear danger to likely both himself and others need to get him to the hospital or face lawsuits for doing nothing if something bad does ensue. Reason is attempted by the police but again this person is in who knows what world seeing who knows what. If they have been through the process before it may actually work in the favour of the police who will try and tell that person that the way to be assessed is to voluntarily attend the hospital with the police because being dragged in kicking and screaming is not the way to convince doctors that you are ok. This actually works a lot. Sadly though what usually happens is the fight is on. This person in psychosis is no longer you're average person though. In his so scared and very heightened state he sometimes has the strength of literally ten men. It is like being in a state of excited delirium (google excited delirium) and the ensuing fight with police and the several units needed as back up to deal with the psychosis victim is on. Often these people will not even feel the effect of tasers being used upon them. It is a physical battle unlike you can imagine. The police of course will eventually win out. Perhaps half beaten the victim is restrained in a gurney by police and paramedics and brought to the ER room. For some insane reason in our city of 300K the paramedics have to transfer the patient from their gurney to another so as to keep their specific gurney. I always wondered why they couldn't simply have another gurney. Stupid right. But n0, so he is wheeled into a bubble room where another gurney waits with restraints for the psychosis patient. So now that the patient has had time to regain his psychosis composure when the restraints are taken off everyone hopes and they remain calm all is ok. Yet usually what happens is that a second struggle/fight ensues. Often he is beaten and subdued again by police, hospital security and ER staff who will also give him a shot to calm him down. The bubble room is designed so if the fight is too bad for the hospital to put up with the doors are slammed shut on the psychosis patient and he is left in there until he calms down which may be a day or two. Unbelievable. And oh, once in restraints, and having had his calming shots which put him in a catatonic/zombie like state he then gets delivered to the psyche floor. Now how they can assess someone in such a state is beyond me. The whole process is a mess and you know what I have done this ugly ugly scenario well over 500 times maybe even more than a 1000. Literally the worst type of police call going. Yet who do you call to deal with a person in psychosis?So our main character Amy Brenner has had dealings with the mentally ill while she was a teenager. The novel is written in two time frames which is the present predicament that Amy as a medical student must face which is spending the night on the locked ward D. She is scared and when the author shows us why she is scared through the timeline of when she is 16 it all starts coming together.Like I said the book is kind of flawed and yet I so enjoyed it. I cannot see any of it happening really but can you see zombie's happening, vampires and werewolves happening? Of course not and yet there are so many great books concerning those subjects. So yeah this is so unlikely and yet so good.Also the author brings up some great points regarding a very very ugly subject - mental illness. I really hope if you read this you take note of her points. They are spot on and though the language used may be offensive it only heightens the points she is making. Her father is a psychiatrist and her mother feels this novel is her best. I think her family knows of what she speaks of. There is not a lot of preaching on mental illness so to speak and in fact I feel that most people will read her point and just keep reading without really thinking of it.Here are most of her points believe it or not. You can see there are not many. I noted the pages they were on so you can see for yourself. I have commented on them as well.p. 95 How does somebody get to the point where their brain stops functioning, like a normal brain? That their reality completely breaks from the reality that every person in the world lives in?-Harsh words perhaps but just so damn truthfulp.96 He’s playing the piano and is just so good. It’s sad that somebody with so much talent had their brain crap out on them like that. Is it true that people with incredible talent are more susceptible to mental illness?-again I can see a woke person reeling in disgust by the language. Yet truer words were never spoken. My thought, I think the very nice and naïve people who have to put up with the savages that most are in this world are the highly susceptible ones.p.122 “They’re never going to get my medications right.” Jade grumbles “They’ve been trying for the last 8 years.”-just spot on. It’s not a proven science and the docs may never get it right.p.249 Jade always complained about how hard it was to be on antipsychotic medications…… I’m beginning to realize what she has gone through over the last 8 years.p.259 It was so hard to see my best friend pumped full of drugs that made her like a zombie.-love the use of the word zombie as it or catatonic best describe the results of the meds in way too many times.So Amy's night on Ward D is her worst nightmare come true. The book was excellent with twists and turns everywhere inlcuding one of the biggest which was on the very last page. From start to finish it was just awesome. My wife reads cozy mysteries but I told her she had to read this one. She could not put it down She skipped doing so many things because she just had to finish it. She rated it 4.8/5 and read it in two days. Me, this was dear to my heart. One of my family members suffered one of the worst forms of mental illness. He went through hell but so did my family. Often families abandon the mentally ill and they become homeless.And I wanted to just include this. This fall the Canadian government will pass into law the right for the mentally ill to be able to take their own life. Like wow, really? Currently a sick person can elect to take their own life but has to get ok'd by 3 psychiatrists. My question how can a mentally ill person be deemed mentally fit to make that decision? It is an ugly road to travel down in my opinion. What comes next the autistic, those with Downs Syndrome. To me if Canada passes this legislation I so hope they are ostracized by the G20 with severe economic punishing consequences. Only in Canada, where you can no longer have a gun, no longer peruse the internet at will as the government will be monitoring internet content, face fines for saying things on the internet which can cost you in excess of 70K, where buying a cigar will soon be impossibe because of pending legislation there. Kind of reminds me of the guy who started WWII!!!!! Enjoy the read (while you can) :)