An extremely disappointing follow up to "Even White Trash Zombies Get The Blues" that sees Angel flail about in an over-extended plot that vaguely relates to the filming of a zombie movie in her hometown. Obviously there's a lot more going on behind the scenes and our zombie heroine must rise to the occasion when people she loves are again threatened by a sinister outside influence.Where this book really fell short for me was the way it didn't continue Angel's incredible progress from the second book. She tolerates Marcus being a fuckwad (despite slamming his ass in the second book) because he's ~working on~ not being such a possessive shithead. Never mind that Angel has to verbally slap him down again this book for the same reasons as before, he's still in the picture and he's still an asshat. Add to the mix the fact that his possessiveness might be somewhat based on his ZOMBIE SIRE CONNECTION with Angel I mean... the fuck? Marcus you are gross. Go away.Angel's attempts to get her GED take a serious back seat in this book as well, despite an interesting hint that she may have dyslexia early on in the book (which sadly didn't get much of a look in -- I definitely want to see this examined further in the future). Angel's personal progress just seemed very flat and limited when compared with the strides she made in book two. While the natural disaster hitting town made for some compelling reading (primarily with regard to her relationship with dear old dad), much of its impact was lost as we were immediately thrust back into the uneven zombie movie subplot. Ugh.This brings me to perhaps my biggest issue with the book. The ridiculous overuse of the word "bitch", particularly with regard to the Charish character. I don't like gendered slurs at the best of times, but Rowland's books are generally quite progressive and inclusive so it's rarely an issue in her work. I was extremely disappointed by the /constant/ references to Dr. Charish as a "psycho bitch" or just general "bitch". It was lazy as all hell to have Angel mention what a "bitch" Charish was in the previous book, especially given that her reprehensible actions are recapped well and it's obvious to anyone with half a brain that hey, Charish isNot Niceby her actions in this book. There were several pages in my digital copy of the book where Charish was referred to as a "bitch" three times /per page/. It was painfully unnecessary and not at all what I expect from a writer of Rowland's standing.Actually I found Charish overall to be a really problematic representation of the woman scientist, especially when contrasted with the "good" (male) scientist introduced in this volume. Charish is a cold, heartless creature whose sex is constantly underlined with reference to how COLD she is. Dr. Nikas openly admits that his work benefited from Charish's super eeevil science, but that's OK because he's polite and sees heads in jars as ~people~! Charish is just an ICE QUEEN SUPER BITCH and totally deserving of being beaten and starved, which is her ultimate fate at the end of this story. BUT NIKAS IS NICE OK, EVEN THOUGH HE TURNS A BLIND EYE TO HER BEING ASSAULTED BECAUSE SHE ~DESERVES IT~. Yeah, whatever. Charish was an awful character who could have been barfed straight out of any bog-standard sci-fi blockbuster and frankly, I felt Rowland was an author was above such a lazy and troubling portrayal of a woman scientist. I guess not.Just when I thought things couldn't get any worse for this book, Nikas suggests that Angel's ability to calm the zombie she sired in the previous volume using her bite = SUPER FUCKING SPECIAL. She's not the same as regular zombies, you guys! SHE'S A SPESHUL ZOMBIE! ONLY, LIKE, 500-YEAR-OLD ZOMBIES SHOULD BE ABLE TO DO THAT!! OMGGGG!!!1The fucking fuck? What made this series so different from the usual trash that clogs this genre was how utterly average Angel was from the get-go. She wasn't special and her battles weren't so much SUPER EXTRAORDINARY as they were ANGEL MUST GET ZOMBIE SHIT OUT OF THE WAY SO SHE CAN PAY BILLS AND GET AN EDUCATION.ThatI loved about the Angel character and, y'know, the general angle these books have taken to the whole zombie-thing. I'm extremely hesitant about future books if Angel truly is a SPECIAL ZOMBIE because wow no, that isnotwhat I signed up for.tl;dr I STILL LIKE YOU ANGEL BUT I REALLY HOPE YOUR NEXT BOOK LIVES UP TO ITS TITLE OR WE'RE GONNA HAVE SOME SRS ISSUES.