Check out more reviews @Perspective of a Writer...A Peter Pan retelling like you've NEVER seen before!! Emma, Norman and Ray are the brightest kids at the Grace Field House orphanage. And under the care of the woman they refer to as “Mom,” all the kids have enjoyed a comfortable life. Good food, clean clothes and the perfect environment to learn—what more could an orphan ask for? One day, though, Emma and Norman uncover the dark truth of the outside world they are forbidden from seeing.The Promised Neverland vol 1 sounded like some drab lost boys pirate retelling. Yes, the fact Emma, Norman and Ray were orphans caught my attention because I LOVE orphans, but yeah... just look at that cover... it seems wholesome and not a bit creepy... right?! Well I'm here to tell you looks are DECEIVING!!! This is the BEST PETER PAN RETELLING EVER!! (Yes, I needed that in all caps.) And it all has to do with the creepy atmosphere and the mystery element that is such a huge part of events.It may seem repetitive to some readers but only if you're used to the story giving you easy and simple solutions. This isn't that sort of story. Our orphans are in an impossible situation. They have a deadline they have to beat or they lose the most important thing... their lives. And their opponents hold all the cards. And its SO believable that these 11 year olds are figuring each step out, one at a time. They're working together like an Agatha Christie mystery detective!!I love the sibling love, teasing and affection between Emma, Norman and Ray. These three grew up together and their knowledge of each other is only eclipsed by the things their Mom knows about them. Emma though clearly comes out ahead for me. She totally subverts female tropes being athletic, smart but not the smartest and quick thinking on her feet. We don't see this in manga much. At the same time she has a great love and loyalty for her younger siblings that is a huge motivator in their predicament.Ray was fascinating being a hugely knowledgeable bookworm and a realist. A great contrast to Norman who is a strategist most likely to get out of sticky situations. You'd think that three highly intelligent children would be boring. But their Mom is one step ahead of them. She is the major reason these three are so bright besides their natural born talent. And the shift in their relationship with Mom is heartbreaking and yet soooo understandable. It's a game of three smart but blind mice against an evil, fat cat with monsters on her side.The Promised Neverland vol 1 has the perfect art to accompany the mysterious and creepy story. It's a little twisted, very detailed (just look at the faces in the background) and surprisingly dark. You feel the creepiness right away even though every thing looks perfect on the outside. It totally shocked me as I read through chapter 1 how I could feel the atmosphere before knowing what I would find. And then at the end of the chapter the big reveal burst that clean looking facade wide open... its thrillingly fresh and satisfying.The first chapter is just the beginning though. The art continues heightening the creepy and mysterious twists as Emma, Norman and Ray work out what to do as the oldest and brightest among them. The tension is so thick and Mom looks increasingly sinister.I can't talk about the twists that make The Promised Neverland vol 1 such a great start to a series. But its sooooo creepy! Pirates have NOTHING on the monsters in this story. And as we read the chapters Emma, Norman and Ray work out the basics of their situation when before there were only the most innocent clues to the truth. I loved how this worked... it kept me on the edge of my chair reading as fast as I could.Then when I was done I told my friend all about the volume and pressured her into reading it (thank goodness she loved it as much as I did!) And after she was done I persuaded a roommate to read it as well! I just had to share all the twists and reveals with someone. The Promised Neverland vol 1 is a Peter Pan retelling that takes on a life of its own and its creative, creepy and twisted!I can't help but enjoy The Promised Neverland vol 1 because of the gorgeous creepy art showing off the twisted twists of an impossibly dark situation. Emma, Norman and Ray work together to beat their nemesis... Mom!! This is a Peter Pan retelling that EVERYONE (and I mean YOU) should read.⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ Authenticity⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ Tension⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ Plot⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ ArtThis is a multi-volume series and there may be references to the plot of those volumes... SO READ WITH CARE! Here is my review of1|2|______________________You can find this manga review and many others on my book blog every Monday @Perspective of a Writer. See my manga and graphic novel reviews at the bottom of the page.Please like this review if you enjoyed it! *bow* *bow* It helps me out a ton!!