Instantly, the vibes of this book are impeccable. I’ve read few 00s Batman runs, and I was hesitant that it would feel tonally toothless or tangibly campy to the point where we’d become immediately taken out of the story. I love the “dark” in Dark Knight after all, and while I didn’t expect a Snyder or King-esque Batman, I did hope for something at least consistent with that style of Batman. The LAST thing I expected was something that HANDILY eclipsed both. I’ll talk what I liked about the story arcs and end with conclusions.The chaotic stories we get at the beginning of Bruce’s rebirth to spite the horrors of his life were such great tone-setters for this tale. It is initially a confusing interlude that seems to have little to do with everything else in the story. However, the sparks set here light a fire that burns well into the rest of the story, and I feel like it’s so important to praise that these seemingly random stories stand on their own! Hickman and King's foreshadowing would frequently made me feel like I was accidentally reading the wrong comic, and while that misdirection or mystery can still be a lot of fun, Morrison’s foreshadowing didn’t break my immersion for a second! The exact opposite, in fact—the question of how you get a goose out of a bottle without injuring it or breaking the bottleactuallybeing a metaphor for how words are often a prison for our imagination? Absolutely something that will stick with me. Incredible how even this stays relevant throughout the book.Batman and Son was immediately more intense than the adaptation. Damien is surprisingly even more precocious, insubordinate, and cruel than he is in the movie, and having the lawful good Tim Drake be the foil is an exciting complication. While the extra layers explored in the movie about the lore of Ra's are fun, Damian's brutality is shocking and far more interesting to see Batman have to deal with.I have SO much praise for Andy Kubert’s framing and set design in the Man-Bat fight scene in the comic art museum. This is how we use comics as a visual medium: make your scene colorfully dynamic and full of life! That’s how you make something entertaining; it’s a comic!! Why aren’t we always throwing out fun gimmicks like this? Man-Bats with katanas and AK-47s… PLEASE. Here’s an interlude to praise Ryan Benjamin, Joe Bennett, Giuseppe Camuncoli, Tony Daniel, John Van Fleet, Lee Garbett, Keith Giffin, JH Williams III, and Andy Kubert for their incredible penciling work. There is not a page I can turn to that doesn’t have a brilliant voice dripping with style and substance.“The victory is in the preparation.”And as we start cutting into the true center of the book, the three ghosts leading into the Black Glove arc, this run truly ascends above everything that comes after. Once again, I am blown away at how incredible original it all is, and how everything Batman comic after was in fact only a pale imitation of Morrison the whole time. Scott Snyder and Tom King have very similar approaches and cadences to Batman, but Grant Morrison did it first with oceans more punch and heart. Why does Batman have to be an asshole to the people he loves EVERYWHERE else but this comic? I feel like we get very little of Bruce Wayne's day to day interactions with the Bat Family, and he still felt like a character you actually like here. Bruce doesn't need to be told to tell Tim how important he is; he just realizes he was being headstrong and does it immediately. A hero!The paranoia Batman deals with as the Black Glove closes their grip actively raised by heart rate, and the monstrous revelation of Zur En Arrh is an all-timer Batman moment for me. I made the fatal error of leaving before the conclusion and almost ruining all the buildup that came before, and it STILL blew me away. I hate to constantly pit two queens against each other, but I have to throw King under the bus here for nonstop having to remind us that Batman is Batman during his run. Narration is far more common in King’s run so it perhaps makes sense, but it still feels so much more slick when Morrison waits for the very conclusion to let Bruce's inner thoughts rip. Less is more!I got into this run for the excellent Batman and Son storyline I really enjoyed in the movie, and ended up enjoying the Black Glove storyline far more. And compared to everything after, like the often convoluted Court of Owls Snyder run or the drip-fed Bane revelations in the King run, there is not an inch of blubber in this thoroughly entertaining story. Jaw-dropping to see the dialogue, art, and forceful themes over 700 pages. You're telling me there's two more of these? But I want to read it again! I genuinely fear that this will be the final nail in the coffin for Batman comics—how can any other Batman writer reach the heights of Grant Morrison’s world?