In the midst of the 90s comic book boom after ‘The Death of Superman’, the main names of the two biggest editorials were either submitting themselves to death itself, or simply, changes in their physical stability, that is, a considerable harm was done to them, and someone else will have to take the mantle of the former hero, this allowing writers and artists to constant toying of the brands without the necessity of restarting everything, while offering readers a new set of stories, with different and familiar characters to keep things “fresh”. But, on the other hand, there was an alternative that, in my own opinion, was actually better, and far more interesting than the main editorial plan. Enter DC’s Elseworlds; a collection of stories centered on DC’s household names being put into unconventional situations (for comic book standards) not necessarily belonging to the regular series, placing them in an alternative reality where the current regular continuity doesn’t needed to be respected, or even followed, in fact, it could be set in any time period, any moment in the character’s history, in order to be its own thing completely.Here’s when Batman VS Dracula comes to function. With the creative team of Doug Moench (the creator of ‘Moon Knight’ for Marvel), and artist Kelley Jones, this second volume delivers the ultimate showdown between Batman, and the forces of darkness, incarnated in the shape of blood-sucking vampires, rampaging through the streets of a condemned Gotham, commanded by no other than Dracula himself.Mounch had already demonstrated a specific talent with the supernatural aspect of the superhero genre, with his involvement in series such as ‘Werewolf by Night’, or ‘Moon Knight’, and he previously worked on the Batman series as well, so the character wasn’t new territory for him to explore, but the show stealer in this situation is Kelley Jones as the responsible for the title’s pencils.The whole collection consists of three mega issues, each one narrating a different chapter of the vampire invasion through Gotham. The first one is ‘Batman & Dracula: Red Rain’, where the vampire leader arrives at Gotham, provoking chaos, and mayhem in the lower parts of the city, attacking innocents and turning them into the undead. Batman investigates and reaches the conclusion that the creatures are real, and not only that, but he might also be suffering the vampire curse himself, thanks to a mysterious vampire woman named Tanya, who’s on a quest to put an end to Dracula’s deeds. The second issue is titled ‘Bloodstorm’ where Batman already defeated Dracula, but there’s still an infestation of vampires in Gotham, this time, led by Joker himself, who is using his brand-new vampire army to take down the members of the underworld. The third and final issue is ‘Crimson Mist’, where Batman comes back after killing the Joker, corrupting his own moral code, and succumbing to the vampire curse for good, and now, he rises from the death in order to put an end to Gotham’s worst nightmare: the Batman rogue’s gallery, one by one.It seems the idea of Batman fighting vampires should’ve been exploited in the past- prior to this comic’s release, at least-, but for some reason, it wasn’t until ‘Red Rain’ where the ships finally sailed. As I said, Moench and Jones’ duo works in all the right places; Moench understands the basics of vampire folklore, and his ability to move the story in the best direction is evidently, especially in ‘Bloodstorm’, once we’ve learned that Joker is pulling the vampire’s strings, targeting the crime underbosses to take over. But adding Jones’ art to the mix only improves the situation; Jones has an affinity for the macabre, the gothic and obscure. In a way, he’s perhaps the artist with the creepiest Batman ever put on paper, adding vampires to the catalogue only makes him exploit his visual talents for the best, since this is one of the goriest Batman comic books I’ve ever read. The graphic violence, and sadistic content displayed seems off the charts, with all the twisted imagery, and odd visuals that resemble pulp-magazines, and classic horror comic strips from the 1950s, Jones gives the perfect identity to this terrifying title. His style appears to take strong references from other veteran names, such as Wrightson, or even Mignola, but always putting his own signature to each frame and design.As for the script, Moench could’ve simply crafted an average “superhero vs monster” type of story, with Batman just fighting hordes of undead with a no-brainer depth. Fortunately, the story explores the familiar corners of the Batman classic code: is it crossing the line the moment you start to put down vampires? Isn’t that murder as well? How long can the hero maintain himself pure until the temptation wins? All these questions are explored throughout the length of the three mega-issues, with Moench’s prose which almost resembles a certain Stoker-like style of narrative, which works as a delight the darker the story goes. Also, the this is one of the better takes on Alfred I’ve read in comics, and he’s troubled once his Master is being corrupted by the curse, so that adds plenty to the character’s persona.If I am to complain about a single aspect in this, it could be the rush feeling I got from ‘Crimson Mist’, once Batman is resurrected, and starts taking down one of his main villains at a time, it feels that Moench only wanted to move the story forward without considering the type of climax he’d eventually deliver in the final pages. Also, there are unexplained aspects of the lore from the vampires that aren’t well explained, for example, in ‘Bloodstorm’, Batman acquires a sudden ally, which is a well-known character from his own series; this character is bitten by one of the main vampires in the story, and the kind of powers that character develops variates from your average vampire-reasoning. Also, that character out of nowhere has the power to ease Batman’s thirst, again, without that much of a convincing explanation. I understand why that particular character was in here, I mean, it would’ve been strange if not, but I feel there was a void in the script’s justifications.Other than that, this is exactly what I was hoping for. I’ve heard about this title for quite some time, and I never got the chance to read it until now, and the results are just as good as I thought; frightening, astonishingly illustrated, committed to its own story, and downright a hell of a good time from start to finish.