The Future Belongs to the MadAight the ACTUAL end of Snyder’s and Capullo’s Batman run. This has been one of the more well known duos on Batman especially in these past few years. Their names will go down in the future as a classic duo like Loeb and Sale or Miller and Mazzucchelli. BUT either way I was super hyped for this book. Especially when I heard it wasn’t just a regular single issue. It kinda reminds me of when Miller put out 4 bigger sized issues for DKR back in 86. After reading and reviewing this book for a few hours I can safely say I am definitely intrigued. Cuz if there ever was a story that ever left you with 10 thousand questions well here’s a perfect example. The book really does a great job of making you feel like Bruce Wayne. Confused, scared, angry, and clueless. Parts 1&2 of this story are spectacular. Loved the shit out of it. It kinda went down the same route Jeff Lemire took Moon Knight back in 2016. (Which is a fantastic story by the way) Once part 3 hits the book became a little less enjoyable for me for a few reasons.*Spoiler* 1: Since we skip into the far flung future, Snyder sets up what the messed up future would look and feel like. I kinda knew this would happen, but unfortunately this seems very rushed. I really wish this was more than 3 Books because more could have been established and shown about this apocalyptic future. If anybody has ever read myOld Man Loganreview, you know I fucking LOVE when creators make their own crazy and amazing versions of the apocalyptic future. I just find it so damn interesting because so many details and references can be made here. I haven’t read the next 2 books of course but my hunch is that more attention to this won’t be given. Or maybe I’ll totally be eating my own words I dunno. The second problem I have with the second half of the book is the overabundance of EXPOSITION. There is a lot of it here and most of it could have been shown in a flashback instead of in walls of text while 2 characters walk around. Exposition is necessary but you have to do it right, and I know this isn’t the way because I wasn’t engaged, or as engaged as I could have been. The Black Label was something I don’t actually thinking was needed here. They say the word “shit” twice. Even in the New 52 Run there was someone who got stabbed through the eye by Mr. Bloom. And you could see brain, blood, and cartilage. It might get a lot worse but this wasn’t anything that warranted a mature label.Alright Capullo. You have always been one of my favourite Batman artists but this book cements that. The penciling he does here is just………………...Its just too good man. That combined with the colouring and we have some of the best Batman panels I have ever seen. In particular one where he is standing in the rain and another in a super badass straight jacket Batsuit. Damn that was frickin tight.By the way I have no idea where this takes place in continuity. I’d like to believe it’s an elseworlds story, but I’m willing to bet 100 bucks it’s not. With all the fallout after Metal and the current Snyder run on Justice League I have no clue.In the end, I’m in. I really had a great time reading this and it takes Snyder’s and Capullo’s Batman arc to new and batshit crazy lengths. I have a thousand questions that hopefully are gonna be answered soon, a large portion of the book seems to be breezed by, and exposition makes a big crater here but with all that I’m still gonna give a higher grade because overall I got really excited seeing all this unfold. And the art is something to die for.Letter Grade: (B+)