Honestly, I feel like this is a pretty standard story. I believe this is Schulner's first foray into the comics field and I know it has some fans, though not the following that lots of other Image books have - and it sort of reads like one.Let me be more specific: Schulner is a television writer, writing shows that I've never heard of, despite being on networks. Clone was a book that I had only seen images of and mainly bought out of curiosity and actually probably as a mistake over on DCBS. I like to try the new Image books as often as possible and the price point with the discount probably put this around $6.00 for me, so whatever - that's almost a dollar an issue.And for me, that's about what it is worth, which is harsh, sure, but mostly true.A kid was cloned, all the clones find each other, all the clones are disappearing (murdered), blah blah. Even if I haven't seen or read this type of story a hundred times (I've at least read it once or twice), this is basically clone-esque science fiction written with your eyes closed and brain off. The political intrigue is really simple, the "family" drama is really simple, and really I just barely enjoyed any of this - though I suppose the last page of the trade has me wanting to figure out what happens, out of again, curiosity - but I won't check it out, most likely. It's not BAD. It's written like a sub-par television show (and honestly would probably make for a decent SyFy original movie), but it doesn't really use the comic book medium to it's advantage, it never really stretches out and does things you couldn't do on tv. That's why comics are awesome.On the art front, Ryp has this tendency (and I've seen it in other books he's worked on), to alternate between really awesome and really awful. As people have said, he uses a lot of lines, he makes certain aspects look real - he makes everyone look kind of dumpy (or incredibly fit). Someone compared him to Geof Darrow, which isn't far off as far as a beacon - but really far off as far as quality. Whereas Darrow has all this imaginative juice just pouring out of him, creating hyper-detailed yet out-of-this-world stuff, Ryp really keeps it grounded. I think his character designs fit in with like late 90s Tekken designs or something, and his action sequences (BIG PUNCH) are usually pretty stale. Oh and the colorist (assuming it's the colorist) has a tendency to color gunshots yellow, which made me wonder in the first issue if they were like smoke bombs or something similar.All that said, Ryp is serviceable, and could actually produce some cool work for a neo-noir, hyper-violent crime comic, I suppose - but I would love to see him work on something SUPER far out and (again) STRETCH his abilities.If you like soft sci-fi, you could give this book a shot, but with all the great Image books in the last few years, it's mostly forgettable.