The Atrocity Exhibition: Garth Ennis and Jacen Burrows Reimagine the Zombie ApocalypseWARNING: This Review Contains Explicit and Disturbing Imagery'Preacher', by writer Garth Ennis, was one of the titles from the 1990's that helped justify the existence of DC's 'mature readers' imprint, Vertigo. In Preacher, Ennis and fellow Brit Steve Dillon created one of the most crazy, violent and shocking comics to be released by a mainstream publisher, taking their popular collaboration on Hellblazer to new levels of outrageous and brutal depravity. Preacher incorporated all the basic elements that editors Karen Berger and Shelly Bond were looking for: contemporary urban fantasy, supernatural entities, a long, 70-or-so-issue story-arc penned by a witty Brit... a faux Neil Gaiman, basically, delivering another 'Sandman', since Gaiman was the only thing related to comics they knew or cared about. But then Ennis turned it all backwards and upside-down and inside-out. There were vampires, but the main vampire and sidekick -- Cassidy -- was very 'Near Dark', and nowhere near Anne Rice. There was a Seraphim fucking a demoness in a romantic corner of the metaphysical DMZ. There was an immortal assassin that heaven called in for acts of trans-nuclear smiting, called 'The Saint of Killers'... similar to a High Plains Drifter/Unforgiven-era Eastwood, he stepped into this bizarre role after a frontier-era killing spree was followed by post-mortem killing-spree in hell, and then a POST-post-mortem killing spree back on earth. There was a super-secret religious order that was immensely powerful, exerting it's irresistible influence over governments around the globe, and dead-set on triggering Armageddon to trot out a new Jesus... or at least the true descendant of Jesus, his bloodline kept 'pure' by way of a 2000-year-old brother-sister incest policy... yielding a smelly, illiterate, microcephalic Jesus so dumb he flings shit like a monkey and drools. In short, Ennis opened a lot of eyes about what comics could and could not do. Writers could embrace the crazy. He showed comic fans that big risks could produce amazing stories, even at 'the big two'. His major area of expertise has always been military history, with a minor in the mythology of the American Frontier. This historical acumen is reinforced by the blackest of black humor, demonstrated both in his classic War Stories: Volume 1 - 2, for Vertigo, and Battlefields, for Dynamite Entertainment.His influence on the current generation of comic writers is profound, and one of the most obvious examples is Robert Kirkman, creator of The Walking Dead. Reading the first couple story arc's, I couldn't help but wonder what Garth Ennis would do with the Zombie Apocalypse premise; as it happened, I didn't have to wait long to find out. Warren Ellis is responsible for first using indie-publisher Avatar's laissez-faire editorial approach to publish the stories that DC had rejected. That worked well enough for all concerned, and attracted an impressive group of foul-mouthed big-name writers, like Kieron Gillen, Jonathan Hickman, and of course, Garth Ennis. There were a few titles of varying quality before Ennis created 'Crossed', but it's clearly the best of his Avatar series... and perhaps his best work in comics. It ignores the Romero-type Zombies of The Walking Dead for a slightly readjusted take on the 'Rabid Dog' Zombie epidemic of 28 Days Later.The diner-scene (Top) - the crazy gets crazier, and the infection takes hold before anyone knows what’s happening. The survivors are forced to hide and scavenge, making plans without any reliable information (Middle). Some effective promotional art by Jacen Burrows (Bottom):Just as many Ennis fans predicted, he is perfectly suited for the kind of story he delivers in 'Crossed', unquestionably the most gut-wrenching, horrifying series ever produced. I've seen over-top-violence and depravity from artists like Johnny Ryan (Prison Pit), ero-guro horror by Shintaro Kago (Anamorphosis) and Suehiro Maruo (Ultra-Gash Inferno), and underground shock-meister S. Clay Wilson. 'Crossed' was more disturbing. Ennis' ability to create convincing and memorable characters, natural, witty dialogue, and a seemingly endless array of terrifying dilemmas remains unrivalled. Crossed is impossible to quit reading, making it a must-have book for horror fans. Although it doesn't have the long-term, epic scope of The Walking Dead, Crossed outdoes Kirkman in every other way. The Crossed themselves are something more credible and terrifying than zombies; there is nothing supernatural about them -- they don't possess the freakish appearance of an animated corpse that is halfway to becoming a skeleton -- but the Crossed are much worse: humans without conscience or mercy, indulging the most sick and brutal whims without fear of consequence.After being infected through exposure to diseased blood or fluids, the newly infected victim has seconds before becoming symptomatic. A raw, bleeding rash running under the eyes and down the nose from just above the brow gives the Crossed their name; once they've turned, new 'vectors' transform into cackling, grinning obscenities driven to rape, torture and kill every uninfected being they come across. Regardless of age, gender or race, each of the Crossed displays the same singular determination to do harm -- mothers murder their infants, children butcher their siblings, and so on. They show no fear and care about themselves only insofar as staying uninjured allows them to kill and/or infect others. Perhaps worst of all, their homicidal insanity does not keep some of them from retaining their ability to operate vehicles and firearms, and they display a demonic intelligence and imagination when it relates to tracking and hunting down prey.This sequence from the first chapter declared war on reader expectations, and the allegorical implications of monsters performing evil under the sign of the cross... in god's name, the sickest of violent crimes become just. It also used the superstitious insanity behind Joel's decision to expose the ridiculous and desperate nature of all spiritual 'faith' (otherwise known as ignorance celebrated as virtue):It's pretty fucked up...You know you'll see something horrible, but it's still difficult to avoid taking that look into the hellmouth.Jacen Burrows, one of Avatar's most popular artists, plays a large role in the book's success. The only consistent weakness in Garth Ennis' projects are the people he chooses to work with, usually friends of his like Steve Dillon, John McCrea, and Carlos Ezquerra, all of whom are mediocre hacks. Jacen Burrows, on the other hand, is a rapidly improving artist, blending North American and European influences in a weird, somehow awkward way that still manages to be appealing... I think he'd be better served with someone other than the garish colorists behind most of the Avatar titles, but it's hard to say. He's not a great artist, by any means, but he does research when he needs to and doesn't rely on the shortcuts and repetition of the deadline-kings. His clean-line style depicts the most heinous atrocities in revolting detail, and his vision of the Crossed and their savage, pitiless expressions of mirth match Ennis' intentions exactly. He understands that human beings are far more terrifying than any monster.One of the factors that continue to differentiate Crossed from the rest of the crowd is the writer's determination to present the reality of such an unbelievably awful catastrophe; there are no sudden heroics, no miraculous escapes, no acts of redemption. And when the worst happens, when the charismatic would-be savior and the innocent children he's trying to protect are cornered, and the most monstrous acts are about to be committed, Ennis refuses to shut the camera down, so to speak, he does not 'cut away'... the would-be savior panics, and attempts to save himself, but fails. The children are tortured and killed.I've been a horror fan for a long time, and I've been fascinated by violence and the ugliest aspects of human nature for as long as I can remember, as if I might inoculate myself with the atrocity exhibition that is our past. But I was still shocked by parts of Crossed, and avoided the sequels that weren't written by Ennis for a while, before hearing positive reviews of the better 'Badlands' story-arcs from respected bastions of criticism like 'The Comics Journal'. This is hardcore survival horror at its most brutal, and I recommend it highly to those who have a strong stomach for this type of story; anyone else should probably skip it.P.S.: I've often asked myself, after reading works like this, what is preferable (in an ethical sense): comics that skillfully create stories and characters in which violence is sickening and shocking, leaving an indelible stain on the reader's mind; or comics in which the reader senses the target on each character's back immediately, using formulaic plots and clichés to an extent that the violence is anticipated, and when the bodies drop there is no shock or lasting memory? In my opinion, Ennis is being ethical even at his most gratuitous, by refusing to let us get comfortable with killing. Violence should never be taken lightly. Stories that do so lie to the reader. Selling bullshit notions of heroism on the battlefield, bloodless deaths, and poignant last words, led to an army of naïve boys who couldn't reconcile the nightmare of the trenches in WWI with the dreams of glorious combat the books of the time inspired.