Tintin was one of the comic book heroes of my childhood. I'm going to read my way through the series again as I listen to a radio program about him, and his creator, Hergé. After one stand alone book, Land of Black Gold, comes the next two book adventure, and as it turned out, the last one. First Destination Moon (Tintin #16) and then Explorers on the Moon (Tintin #17). Destination Moon actually begins right where Land of Black Gold left off, so perhaps one could talk about a three book adventure, but not really. There is single story line from the beginning of Destination Moon, till the end of Explorers on the Moon.The story begins when Tintin, Snowy and Captain Haddock come back from their oil crisis mission, but Professor Calculous isn't at home. Before they manage to unpack, a telegram arrives. It is from the professor, and he is asking them to join him in Syldavia. They go there, and find out that the professor is building a rocket to take a manned, and dogged mission to the moon.While it doesn't use quite the same formula as the two previous two book adventures, that is mystery at home in Belgium, and then a adventure somewhere else, it doesn't go far from it. There is a certain mystery in Destination Moon, and then adventure in Explorers on the Moon. So there is a clear similarity between these three two book adventures.But what's more is that after one not so great book, Hergé gets back to form, and delivers a good, tight story, filled with humour, mystery, and adventure. Professor Calculus is responsible for quite a few jokes in Destination Moon, but in a sense this is the first time that he comes across as something more than the dotty professor. He is much more competent here than usually, and in a way this two book adventure is his adventure. This is where he is in his element.Thompson and Thomson show up, much to the readers amusement, and there is connection between Land of the Black Gold and this two book adventure is mostly seen through them. They still suffer slightly from the mysterious, and comic illness that they contracted in that book. It is a funny book, and there is also an good mystery that isn't quite solved at the end of it, but it really draws one in.This story was first published in book form in 1953, having been published in weekly instalments as a magazine comic in 1950. The first actual trip to the moon was in 1969, so there had a fair bit of time passed from the time Hergé penned his vision of this trip. Still it's not quite a shot in the dark. He used ideas that had been proposed at the time for how this could be done. The book even has a blue print of the rocket, which gives it a authentic science fiction air.All in all this is a great book, and ends on probably the best cliffhanger in all the Tintin books.