InDie, six teens enter a fantasy role-playing game, disappearing from the mundane world for two years. When they reappear, they are missing one of their members and carrying scars, both physical and emotional, from their ordeal.Fast forward twenty five years, and a blood stained die shows up on someone's birthday, mirroring the date when they last entered the game. The group has to face the fantasy world that has given them nightmares for decades in order to put the past to rest. But some things are easier said than done.Readers of this series seem heavily divided on its quality. I thought it was brilliant.This isn't because of the fantasy elements which, as many have noted, rely heavily on tropes and the established world building of touchstone series likeThe Lord of the RingsandThe Chronicles of Narnia.What I loved was the character development and its relatability for aging gamers.The author shares a series of essays in the back of the graphic novel about the development of the story and characters as well as their associations with classic rpgs. He nails the reasons why I loved the book so much:"... the simple idea of six forty-something adults contrasting their teenage fantasies with the realities of where their lives ended up. It's a pure midlife crisis scream of a book. And the bit that got me? The idea that maybe part of me did disappear into a fantasy world at the age of sixteen and never came out."In the hero's journey, we venture forth into trials and return changed but bearing gifts from the experiences we went through. That format- there and back again- seems so clear cut and simple in many of the "through the looking glass" fantasy stories.It is not so simple in this one.InFantasy Heartbreaker, the journey isn't finished when the characters return to where they started and they aren't bearing gifts, but a curse. It is only through the natural passage of time and the development of the adolescent into the adult, that the heroes in this story can finish their journey or, unbeknownst to them, begin an entirely new one.This delayed emotional development speaks to any manner of gamers, both video or tabletop, who may find themselves, for a variety of reasons, gaming with a dysfunctional group of people over and over again each week. Perhaps this is because there are only a few people in their lives who love to game as much as they do.For whatever reason, from the outside, such intense and conflict-prone relationships can seem confusing at best or borderline abusive at worst. But from inside the group itself, the bonds created through the traversing of realms of the imagination and overcoming obstacles as a team are real and important.The members of the group form a family of sorts- one that they chose rather than one they were born with. It can be beautiful but bewildering. Something that one has to experience to truly understand.Sort of like visiting a different world, and never really coming home again.In addition to the peek into gamer culture, the artwork inFantasy Heartbreakeris gorgeous, one of the most beautiful I've ever seen in a comic.Highly recommended for readers, and gamers, who like fantasy graphic novels.