(Just to let you know, I am going to write the same introduction as I did in my previousEmily the Strangereview because... well... that's how I started with her! XD)Emily the Strange. Man, do we go back. I've been a fan of hers since... well, years! I've always been a fan of the macabre and the grotesque. Anything that's dark and a little spooky. I love it all! I like getting the crap scared out of me so when I discovered Emily a few years back, I was quite glad. I like the weird elements that she brings. I like the oddness to her style, her personality, her mindset. Just the way she handles herself, doing her own thing, inspires me. Sure, not a lot of people get her. They think it's just some "weird comic" but that's the whole point to Emily! It's being weird! It's not about making sense or having an actual plot. It's to have fun, get into the bizarre, see the grotesque, yet still be intrigue with what the dark world has to offer. It's amazing and I love Emily for that.This issue revolves around the theme of lost... and you certainly will feel lost reading this! XD This is so weird, I love it! Nothing makes sense in this volume! It's all thrown together in a bizarre way yet... I felt like I understood it all! Does that make me lost? I guess it does! X3 Personally, I think this issue was a lot better than the last. The references were EVERYWHERE!!! The first one being a spoof on theWizard of Oz. I love theWizard of Oz! It's one of my favorite books/movies ever to be created! Seeing Emily take a spin on it was just nostalgic to me. Not to mention the cameo of the Prince of Darkness, Ozzy himself! XD That was hilarious! "Sharon!!!!" X3333 God, I love reading things that takes what I know and messes with it to no end! Emily did anAlice in Wonderlandreference as well. "Curiouser and curiouser." I couldn't stop saying that line for the longest time after I read the book... same thing happened after I read this comic! XP There was also a spoof on Gilligan's Island and Hansel and Gretel. Fairytales, people! Do you know how much I love them! Not to mention all the video game references! Donkey Kong, Mario, Pac-man! Dude, it couldn't get any better than that! (Well, if Sonic appeared, I would have freaked because who doesn't love that blue hedgehog!?) Man, this issue! Ugh! *Fangirls* Yeah... this is not so much a review, huh? I just keep getting sidetracked and going crazy over all the cool stuff without saying anything about the actual issue... oh well! Emily has such a great wit. She made me laugh quite a few times with her snarky comments. Just everything about this girl puts me in a better mood. Who cares if she's a bit twisted? I know I don't!The art is just as amazing as it was in the first volume. With all the black, white, and red, it makes it for a very interesting read. There is a slight difference in this volume, though! They added just a little bit more color! There's some green and yellow but I will let you see for yourself~ Can't give everything away now, can I? Pick this up, readers! It is such a fun read! It's a lot better than the last issue as well! If you like the macabre and the pop-culture references, then you will enjoy this volume just as much as I did. I guarantee it! It is worth the read! Just... stay away if the bizarre is not something you are into.