After the first volume, I didn't think this series could get any worse.Inmy reviewofFables, Vol. 1: Legends in ExileI complained that Snow White was a terrible heroine. She's the main character and the defacto ruler of Fable Town, but she's also too stupid to live. I thought it was because Bigby Wolf was being set up as the hero, so Snow White was being diminished to flatter him. But in this volume, he's barely involved, and Snow White is stupider than ever.Taking her sister, Rose Red, up to the farm for some sisterly bonding she utterly fails to notice a revolution happening around her. She doesn't think it odd that the ruler she appointed has disappeared. When heads appear stuck on poles, she doesn't bother to think about why. She escapes only because various tertiary charcters arrange for it. And she whines the whole way. She couldn't even control her sister, who was supposedly serving out a punishment for a criminal offense.Meanwhile, instead of filling in details, this volume continues to expose the gaping holes in the world-building. Snow White boasts at the start of the story that Jack and Rose belong to herbody and souland their punishment is whatever she says it is. In the end, the punishment for Jack, who you may remember in the last volume faking a murder, is less than the punishment for Flycatcher, who has been caught eating bugs in public. You might think that's inconsisitent and harsh, but hey,all the revolutionaries get summarily executed with nothing more than a show trialso it could be worse. The books never really makes clear why Snow White has apparently unlimited power over all the fable creatures even though her boss, the Mayor, is allegedly democratically elected.Either way, it's easy to be sympathetic to the revolutionaries on the farm, given that their political system appears to be some kind of totalitarian dictatorship. Snow White appoints the ruler of the farm and dictates where the animals can go and what they can do. That's more than enough to justify a revolt. So why do the revolutionaries keep spouting a load of Marxist rhetoric? All the motivations the book has set up for them are about liberty, not about economic equality. I guess I'm pretty dense, because it took me ages to realise that it's a joke because the volume is called Animal Farm so it's a reference to Orwell'sAnimal Farm. This is absolutely typical of this series so far - cheap jokes are included at the expense of coherent, consistent world-building.I'm just saying, it is incredibly annoying when the characters bang on about the proletariat but the story doesn't have an actual economic system. What proletariat? In what way are the animals of the farm a working class? Are they providing food for the city fables? Are they sweating down mines and in factories providing goods for the city fables? There's no evidence for any of that in the book. In fact, it isn't clear whether the fables have their own currency or whether they're just using American dollars. At the end of the book, Snow White arranges for a magical transformation charm to be laid on a few of the loyalists and says that it coststhe discretionary budget for both fable towns for the rest of the year, and probably the next.What are they paying for? If it's just the services of some witches then why doesn't Snow White just use her unlimited power to command them? And if it's ingredients for spells, where are those coming from and why do they cost so much? It doesn't make any sense!Snow White'smiraculous recovery from a head shotalso annoyed me. The explanation given is that the fables are kept immortal by the belief of all the people who read their stories. Not a bad explanation, Neil Gaiman and Terry Pratchett have explored that idea in their work as well. But if it's true here, then why didn'tthe three little pigs regenerate after their execution? If the fables are kept in stasis by the power of belief then why did Goldilocks grow up? Why did Pinocchio in the first booknotgrow up? After a moment's thought the answer is obviously: Goldilocks was an adult so that there could be a stupid joke about her fucking Baby Bear. Pinocchio didn't grow up so that there could be a stupid joke about how he'll never get laid. Coherent world-building once again gives way to puerile humour. And while I'm condemning the tasteless jokes, the 'banter' between Rose Red and Snow White about incest was pretty grim as well.Unfunny jokes, unlikeable characters, incoherent setting, there's very little good to say about this series. And the final nail in the coffin was the tendency to include random characters from children's books for no reason whatsoever. There are three pages in which characters fromThe Jungle Bookdo nothing more than greet each other: 'Hello Baloo,' 'Hello Kaa'. Just adding more familiar characters doesn't actually make a story better. If they're not doing anything useful then they should be relegated to the background of one panel.