This second volume of the rebooted series, also currently available on Kindle Unlimited, forms the first half of a two-parter with volume three.The authors seem to have finally realised just what they had in this story universe. Rather than the bland high jinx of the previous book, they delve into the background of Mme Cymbaline and of the Harlot, as well as into the relationship between the Harlot and the Thief. Finally, there is some depth and emotion in the telling, although it tends to the sentimental, even to the mawkish.Overall, the story is resolved satisfactorily, making reference back to the original miniseries, and tying up all of the story threads that had been left hanging in that miniseries as well as the previous volume of this series. The story is a big action spectacular, not particularly coherent, but entertaining.The plot relies on too many easy solutions and there are too many tough-talk stand-offs to my taste. It’s still more of a superhero adventure than a paranormal mystery. Our protagonist always knows just what to do and she does not put one foot wrong. The action unfolds without real jeopardy, except that no one thinks to protect the gallery owner. That character’s death is a significant failure of the protagonist, who throws a vengeful tantrum rather than learning and growing. A real opportunity for character development has been squandered there. The convenient and conventional final scenes set up more of the same in episodes to come, rather than giving the sense of finality and closure such a tying up of lose ends requires. Really, this could have become a powerful story but it’s held back by safe comic conventions. So the score remains three rather than four stars.As to the art, it’s still very good, but a little less crisp than in the first volume of this series. It’s all action comic conventions.Overall, the second and third volumes of this series are better than the first. But there still isn’t the intriguing quality of the original miniseries.