I'm in love withLady Killer.The Dark Horse comic book with a story by Joëlle Jones & Jamie S. Rich, artwork by Joëlle Jones and colors by Laura Allred debuted in September 2015 and issues #1-5 are bound here, with a sketchbook of character designs and spoof ads. I'm not a comic book buyer because of my literary (and cheapskate) belief that one purchase should equal one story. I don't like getting into a narrative and being told to pop more quarters in the machine. To my pleasure and surprise, this female empowered, action-packed and cheeky volume does contain a beginning, middle and end, along with killer artwork that made me feel alive.The story involves Mrs. Josie Schuller, a housewife and mom of two blonde girls who judging by her proximity to the Century 21 Exposition, lives in Seattle of 1962. As far as her amiable husband Gene and neighbors are concerned, Josie manages the household and volunteers at a hospice. This is a facade for Josie's secret fifteen years running as an contract killer. Demonstrating an aversion to firearms and none for getting bloody, she's fielded contracts and sometimes assisted by a playboy named Peck, who also works for her boss, Mr. Stenholm. When the big boss begins to doubt the little lady's commitment to her work, he decides to have Josie terminated. Bad idea.Lady Killer #1is small but perfect. While the concept of a female killer-for-hire in the suburbs wouldn't have had much agency in the present day, the contrast between the wholesome conformity of the Space Age and the splatter of blood (household stains being a cultural hanging offense in those times) is as playful as it is powerful. Light and darker elements are well-balanced, both in the story and the artwork, which are equally strong and produce an exciting narrative with plenty of forward momentum. The set pieces include a kitchen, a strip club and saving the best for last, the Seattle World's Fair, all unfolding thrillingly and illustrated gorgeously.Rather than make Josie Schuller a sociopath, Joëlle Jones selects a favorite sub-genre of mine: the professional on the job. Nothing about Josie's past or her feelings are stated. Instead, we get to know her by watching her work: She likes using her hands, announcing herself before attack and keeping business separate from home. She dislikes firearms, party guests who can't handle their alcohol and peers with sloppy work ethic. Josie Schuller is a compelling character, using her brain as much as her body to work through problems,workbeing the key word, in an era where there were few opportunities for women to do so outside the hearth.I'd like to seeLady Killer #2find Josie balancing the tedium of running a business with the challenges of keeping the spark in her marriage alive.