Tintin was one of the comic book heroes of my childhood. I'm going to read my way through the series again as I listen to a radio program about him, and his creator, Hergé. This book and the book before it, Cigars of the Pharaoh, contain one single adventure where Tintin fights drug lords that are using a specialised drug to make their enemies crazy. At the beginning of The Blue Lotus, Tintin travels with his faithful Snowy to China to continue what he started in Cigars of the Pharaoh.This is the first really good Tintin book. It wouldn't be fair to compare it to Tintin in the Land of the Soviets because that one was never redrawn, but if we compare it to Tintin in the Congo one can see how great the difference is. There are only two books between those two volumes, Tintin in America, and Cigars of the Pharaoh, but one can see how much Hergé has matured as a story teller in the time that passed between the two books.One of the reasons why is that this is the first time he really took it upon himself to research the place he was writing about, the culture, the history and so on, and one can see it in the story. The depth is much greater in The Blue Lotus. Sure, there is still a lot of the silly cliffhanger stuff that one can see in the earlier book, and Tintin gets out of some scraps a little too easily, but the character has evolved, the story is stronger, and one can read it as an middle aged man and still see interesting things in the way he builds this up. I don't think I noticed the difference in depth as much when I read this as a kid as I do now for example.Racism is one of the big problems with Tintin in the Congo, and there is still some racism in this book. If one looks at the Japanese characters, one realised quite quickly that they are all buck toothed and evil. The Chinese characters are drawn completely different, they are characters, while the Japanese are caricatures. This is quite simply racism, and it is the same racism that one can see in the World War 2 propaganda cartoons featuring Japanese people. Those have the exactly the same stereotypes, and the fact is that The Blue Lotus is written around the same time as Japan invaded China. Hergé's sympathy lay with China as he had by the time he wrote this book a Chinese friend by the name of Zhang Chongren, who is written into the book in a way.So there is racism in this book, but Hergé writes into this story also an interesting discussion about racism between Tintin and his new found friend Zhang. Hergé hadn't done this kind of thing before in his work. As racial stereotypes of Chinese people where quite common at the time, in earlier Tintin volumes also, it is quite interesting that he would go against the grain here to show the other side. And this is not the only thing. He shows how complicated the impact of the international politics was on this conflict between China and Japan. It's not just the Japanese that are villainous. It is a complicated conflict.It is also just a fun comic book. Thomson and Thompson continue their roles as the comic relief, and in fact they take pretty much over the role from Snowy who remains more or less silent through out this book. Even though Hergé takes the time to discuss racism, in this book it is never really didactic. It is there for those that want to look into it, but mostly it is a exciting adventure story, and it is pretty well built up. Among the better of the series.