Man, this is one of those weird comics thatalmosthits the mark, and then justdoesn't.The art and coloring are just lovely.But.Some of the scenes when the creatures appeared were a bit too confusing and hard to visually understand. I'd go back, stare at a panel for a bit, scratch my head, move to the next panel, stop, go back to the previous panel...Wash, rinse, repeat.However, considering the art was the main reason I was attracted to this title, it's a somewhat minor complaint.My biggest complaint is that there are about 3 volumes of story crammed into one. It's just missing hunks of information.How did these creatures get here? What is this portal thing? What happened to make the mine explode? Why is no one leaving this scary-ass town!And what the hell are the backstories for all of these characters?!The monster hunters. <--no idea what their deal is or how they came to be. They just show up and start eating parts of the creatures? What?!The family that owned the mine. <--WHAT. THE. FUCK.The son Mercy targets. <--no idea. This guy was straight-up cannon fodder.The mother. <--did her husbanddiein the mine explosion or is she married to the old guy who Ithinkwas the brother of the guy doing experiments that Ithoughtshe was married to?And what about the dude who was doing the experiments? Why was he doing that? Was he just evil or was there a reason?The mother's helper dude. <--what the hell was his story?! And how did he end up with Rory at the end?Joe and Becky. <--I can't EVEN with the missing information on these two. There's a whole 'nother volume needed to tell their story.Mercy. <--What even wasanyof that?! She manages not to kill the kid because she called hermom, but then immediately EATS the guy that she has feelings for? Whhhhhy?Rory <--the ending makes no sense. Shouldn't she have been more creature than Rory? Like what happened to Goodwill? Why did Rory stay Rory and Mercy and Goodwill were both 'creatures' in human skin?AND WHERE THE HELL WERE THESE CREATURES FROM? What were the 'pods' or 'sprouts'?And how convenient that their food source in whatever dimension they're from is human brains.The bottom line is that I felt that this was chock full of half-baked ideas. So, while it's quite pretty to look at, I doubt I'm going back for any more of this.This was a Halloween gift from a spooky Goodreads friend.Thank you!