In short? Anotherstunning, if sometimes confusing,installment. It took me a while to remember details after a two-year break from keeping up with these, and I actually spent quite a bit of time on the Wiki, but I found it easy to get reinvested in these characters.[image error]So, a brief reminder of the politics of the known world. On one side of the world is the human federation, oppressive to Arcanics and the cats alike. On the other side lie the Arcanics, half-human & half-animal beings persecuted for their powers. A shade of post-cataclysm adds further intrigue. The Ancients leave behind the Dawn and Dusk courts—one led by Maika’s grandmother, the Queen of Wolves, & one led by the duplicitous Corvin—and the cats, descendants of Ubasti who helped them to defeat the Old Gods in war.Within this context, several groups fight for power, or at the very least autonomy. The Cumaea, an anti-Arcanic group led by Mother Superior Desteria and the Inquisitrix, seek humans with power.The Blood Court, led by Maika’s father and thus the only other member of her monstrous bloodline, seek to usurp both the Dusk & Dawn courts.Smaller forces function as well: The Thyria-based trade empire of Kenzi is relevant to several plotlines. And then there’s the Ancients. The first Arcanic, the Shaman Empress, left behind the mask, broken into many pieces, which could offer a connection to another world. The Old Gods, meanwhile, are imprisoned in this other world, save for a few—including a few that have infiltrated the Cumaea, attempting to find the mask.In this series, we follow Maika Halfwolf, arcanic child of Moriko, who holds an Old God named Zinn inside her arm. She fights first to escape the Cumaea, then to escape from the Dawn & Dusk courts, and thento keep the mask fragment from the Mother Superior, who requires it to open the door between worlds. She struggles to gain trust in her companions: fellow arcanic Kippa, and cat nekomancer Ren,a bit of a double agent. She struggles with memories of her oldlover, Tuya,now working for the Dusk court under dubious circumstances.OKAY, now I’ve gotten that extremely long summary out of the way.This story focuses on dynamics of oppression via allegory, and does so in a world that is complex and rich. At times, you’ll need to turn a few pages back, but the story will still hold weight. There’s an idea here thatbehind all these petty conflicts are secrets of the world, a war with the gods that will eventually hit a boiling point. As the story has continued, it’s leaned into more of a post-cataclysmic vibe that has really resonated with me. I hope certain threads will begin to progress, as the story has finally reached a point where we understand the world to a certain degree.On a firm character level, this volume is coming closer to a theme I really like. I really love seeing Maika slowly grow feelings for Kippa. I loved the complexity of the relationship between Ren & Kippa in this one—it felt like a very well set up challenge of Ren’s willingness to do what he must. He’s ready to act for his own interests with Maika—but what about with Kippa?This is also the first volume where the complicated relationship between Maika and Tuya has been explicitly depicted as romantic, which like… we knew, but it’s nice to get confirmed. This dynamic is increasingly fascinating.Also, I spent the week after reading this binge watching the She-Ra reboot, soooo lesbians who end up on either side of a global conflict is the mood now I guess.As this is the third installment, I’d ask that anyone who wants a review for the beginning of the series, which I definitely did not understand as well as I should have, tocheck that review out. I would also recommend readingMelanie's two fantastically detailed wrap-ups! (Or the first half of this review, which I have filled with enough spoiler tags to populate a small country.)Blog|Twitter|Instagram|Spotify|Youtube|About|