Having been a fan of Tove Jansson's winsome Moomin books for many years, I was happy and excited to learn that for a few years in the 1950s, the Finnish author published a Moomin comic strip (oddly, in a British newspaper), now collected for the first time in this handsome volume, the first of five. What an unexpected treasure-trove. Yet despite being absolutely delighted to receive this for my birthday when it first came out, I was resistant to actually reading it. This was because I immediately started the first story (there are four in this book), and was at once put off by the fact that this was not exactly the Moomin-world I had come to know and love in the original books. There was Moomintroll, but he had no parents. There was Sniff, but a different, bolder, and more assertive Sniff. There were the Hattifatteners, but instead of being silent enigmatic electrical beings, they were a host of "poor relations" who descended on Moomintroll's house and demanded cocktails (that being said, they did look pretty funny all holding cocktail glasses). Moomintroll and Sniff meet Snuffkin and the Snork Maiden in this story as if for the first time, but in completely different ways than they did inComet in Moominland.So it sat on my shelf unread for a couple years. Then, in a new flush of Moomin-enthusiasm brought on by the Children's Book group's discussion ofFinn Family Moomintroll, I decided to be brave and try again. And oh, how glad I am that I did. The first story is in fact both the weakest and the most jarringly different from the books. In the second, Moomintroll is reunited with his parents. The third, in which Moomintroll, his parents and the Snork Maiden travel to the Riviera and hobnob with movie stars and playboys and unwittingly run up a huge hotel bill (they believe they have been invited to stay in the home of a large and unusually accommodating family) is at once absolutely hilarious, and completely different from anything that would have transpired in the chapter books. By that point, I had accepted that this comic-strip world was a sort of parallel universe to the books, and that it didn't matter so much if everything in the two worlds aligned. Also, as much as I love the books, I have to admit that they themselves are not always entirely coherent, with confusing time-lines and characters appearing and disappearing without explanation, and hardly any reference to past events. Jansson clearly felt no compunction at all about taking liberties with her own creations and saw them as very fluid and changeable. This ties in with a delightful but bewildering and giddy-making sense of anarchy I get from reading all her works for children. Jansson was certainly not writing to please pedantic people like the Snork Maiden's brother and the Hemulen.I still do prefer the books. The comic strip definitely highlights the wacky and surreal aspects of Jansson's story telling, at the expense of the introspective and melancholy elements (although I am eager to see if this will change as the comic strip goes on). The characters' personality traits are more exaggerated (oh, that Snork Maiden...if I thought she was girly and superficial before...), and they seem more likely to act in ways that are not entirely likable for the sake of propelling the story along. On the plus side, I love Jansson's art with a passion, and obviously, this being a comic strip, we get lots and lots of it here. I am now so excited to read the other volumes in this series, but I'm glad in a way, that I put off reading this one, and will probably space out the others, so as to stretch out and savor the experience as much as possible.