9/21/24: Reread for a fall ghosts/liminal space class. Okay, zombies aren't really ghosts, but hey, Rachel rises out of her grave and goes back into her house and after a fashion, reenters her life, after death. Call that what you want to. But I really liked revisiting this and see Terry Moore's great drawing and the sense of humor he brings to what is essentially a horror comic.7/16/18: Third read of this first volume, for summer YA/GN class. Again, when you reread you see how clues are left for you that you can't fully know when you read the first time. There are layers to this comic, too, that a rereading helps you attend to. There's Malus, the presence of the the anti-Christ, demons that move from person to person, murdered girls arising from the dead to avenge themselves, and throughout, there's this low-key humor. Like: humor in the autopsy examination room? How can a risen girl be so glibly funny?! I like Carl, the big goofy sweet mortician, too.7/11/17 Reread for my summer YA comics class with a focus on girls/women. It's not mainly a teen comic, actually, as Rachel and her friends are in their twenties (and as murdered and now risen women, centuries old!), but there are teen women and girls in it, for sure. And it connects well with other witch/zombie/monster comics we are reading, such as Harrow County (Emmy--a witch--rising). I finished the series and very much liked it--great story, great drawing, great characters--so it was interesting to go back and start over. One thing that is clear in this reread: Yes, there are gruesome things that happen, but it is also a very funny comic series. So good! One of the best around of this type of comics.6/18/17 How did I miss this comic when it came out? Here’s how: It looks like a zombie comic (get it, Rachel rising. . . . from the dead?!), and when it came out I was sick to death with the supersaturation of zombie everything. But Rachel Rising is a really good comic about the undead, not really a zombie comic in the popular conception of it, it’s supernatural, it’s horror, it’s a mystery, and it is really engaging, character-based, and amusing. And the story is told from the perspective of the women and girls who had been killed, joining up with living women and girls. Compared to The Walkign Dead where the zombies are just there to be slaughtered.The opening scene is awesome, her rising. Yikes, very spooky and cool. Memorable! And then other things happen, as Rachel re-engages with the world not as creepy zombie walker but as pretty close to what she looked like before; well, yes, undead, and with rope burns around her neck and a very low body temperature! How can she enlist her completely alive family and friends in her efforts to find her killer? She has to convince them she is "alive," first! Some of them thought she just took off for a few days! This part of the world-building is interesting.There’s a scary little murderous girl in it. There’s a really creepy preacher that scares the heck out of you (ok, me) by beginning to help us see what it is that is going on with this other creepy woman who is visiting town (who looks too much like Rachel, which is unnecessarily confusing, a mistake, or is it, not sure?!). Bad things are happening, and a lot of them. But why? And what does it mean that murdered girls are rising from the dead, mad as hell? Is this a book for the #me-too moment? Maybe!This story has murderous vapors swirling everywhere, swirling faster, and they suck you into that vortex entertainingly, through likable, believable characters, and darned good dialogue. It’s not a bloody slasher fest, in case you were worried about that. It feels original and fresh and not cliched at all. I haven’t loved everything that Moore has done that I have read, but this one I really like a lot. It’s fun! And his delicate black and white drawing in this is really amazing.