Now that the individual episodes have been bound together, I reread this arc as a total unit and I have to say that might be the better way to go. I really enjoyed this issue as a whole, it’s sort of a rebuilding arc that picks up after a few year gap to match the gap we all waited between issues, introduces a lot of new characters, and begins to push the story in a new direction. Which can be a bit cumbersome for many in terms of enjoyment as it takes a moment to really get a foothold into some of this. Personally, I’m excited about it all. Hazel has grown considerably and the story is starting to shift from the adults to this new, younger generation lost in space amidst warfare and other violence. There is a lot of great high points in this issue, from Hazel learning to play music (I love all the scenes with the volatile bandmates), Alana just trying to scrape by and being as badass as ever, a cute new direction for Squire, and the way it cycles back through a lot of characters we haven’t seen in awhile to reestablish where everything is at. Sure. this one doesn’t hit with the biggest action plot of all the issues. It takes its time to stretch the legs of the new narrative arc, but it is something I am certainly looking forward to watching grow.This is the rebuilding year. Which I think is often looked at as something negative, like, things will be rocky because it is ‘rebuilding’. But I always think back to when I entered High School and joined the Cross Country team, which has recently graduated almost all of it’s varsity members and was almost half new members. It was the rebuilding year, our coach kept saying. But instead of really worrying about wins or losses, he kept the focus on, well,building. The thing I remember most about that year was how much emphasis on fun and camaraderie there was. Because rebuilding isn’t just about finding your footing, but it’s also about experimenting and finding something new, and I think that is what this issue does well.It is sad to see many great characters go, but I am excited to get to know these new ones as well. This was worth the wait. I read each episode as they came out, which was a bit rough as so much of it felt too bitesized to really latch on. Reading it as one big issue made it feel much smoother and really take hold. I wish I could tell you I'd wait until the next full issue to read it again knowing this, but I can't. I know damn well the moment an episode goes live I will instantly gobble in up and bask in my joy and regret. Oh! And in case you were worried, this issue does not let you down and delivers a massive emotional blow right at the end. Because BKV wouldn’t let us wait for the next one with good feelings, would he?