"Just because something comes easily to you, does not mean it has no value. You find it effortless BECAUSE you love it, and that is why it is your gift."pg. 82Once more we return to the cute and cozy world of tea dragons! These small domesticated pets are a lot of work but provide tea and memories to people.If you own a 'toy' dog you might get more out of this book than non-toy-dog owners. The tea dragons are quite similar to toy-breed dogs.O'Neill is famous for her LGBTQIA+ characters and this book is no exception. We have the gay couple from the last book (Hesekiel and Erik) and now we have a ??? person named Rinn who uses the pronouns they/them and dreams of being able to switch anytime from being male to being female to being male again. Not sure whether they are supposed to be genderfluid or non-binary or genderqueer or agendered or what. It's never discussed. Actually, the only reason I know Rinn uses the pronouns they/them is because it subtly (SO SUBTLY) is in the Cast of Characters section. Blink and you miss it - it's not even explicit.There's also interspecies romance in this book - Erik and Hesekiel are a man and a... llama? Chimera of some sort? IDK and later it's implied (SUBTLY) that Rinn and Aedhan are romantically involved by the end of the book, which is a romance of a human and dragon. Weredragon? Not clear.O'Neill also includes a deaf character in this book, which I thought was a nice touch. She uses illustrations to demonstrate people using sign language, either straight or with spoken words accompanying it.A jarring thing - and I mentioned this in the review of the first book - is the juxtaposition of the cutesy and the horrifying. The book is very cute. Everything is cute. People are peaceful and extremely tolerant. Everyone is helpful and kind. Everything is adorable and colorful. Which makes it all the more shocking when O'Neill bluntly includes stuff like, "Erik and Hesekiel kill creatures for money." They are basically bounty hunters. There's also a fight between Aedhan and an eaglefang which is bloody.TL;DRCute book with a very wide range of both skin colors and different gender/sex identities. Deaf representation. Comforting, cutesy, calming, cozy book. Strange underpinnings of violence which seem a bit out of place. Interspecies romances. Very pretty.NAMES IN THIS BOOKHesekiel mErik mRinn they/themAedhan mAya fAshyra fLesa f