Behind the music, Woden's stayed back from the spotlight. But in this issue? We look beneath the mask. Shall we say it's the most audacious and experimental issue of WicDiv yet? I think so.The Story: Every ninety years twelve gods return as young people. They are loved. They are hated. In two years, they are all dead. It's happening now. It's happening again.Previously: Lucifer was killed when escaping prison (for a murder she may or may not have committed). Fan girl Laura and god Inanna investigated a possible conspiracy, but where murdered by Ananke and Baphomet respectively. Inanna's ex-lover Baal managers to capture Baphomet's lover, The Morrigan. Tara commits suicide - only for Ananke to destroy the suicide note and frame Baphomet. Life goes on.The Best:Answers: Ananke. I started not liking this woman after Laura. I don't know that I ever really liked her. I mean she is after all the one who kills Lucifer. But I really had no idea that she was the one that was behind everything until Laura.Flashback: I love how this whole issue is a flashback and explanation of everything that has been going on so far. I love how several scenes show the fight with Baal and Lucifer and instead of the actual text said, it's what the implied meaning behind their words were.Cliffhanger endings: This whole series is fantastic with its cliffhanger endings and this issue is no exception. Again we are introduced to another person and another mystery.The Worst:Coloring and Artwork: I put these two together for several reasons. First let me state that I was not happy when I heard that they would be changing up the artist and colorist. To many times this has turned characters into something far from what they truly are. Things that define the characters we have connected with and define who they are get changed and that does effect the story in small ways. I hadn't really had to many complaints until now. I love the series and I still like this issue. I understand that the reason behind the art and coloring style is to show this is Wooden's story but I walked away from the issue wondering if I had a misprinted issue. It was a cool effect but it was completely distracting. Perhaps if we had a bit of knowledge about how Wooden saw things it would have changed my opinion of this issue.Recommend: To anyone who is a fan of Gods and Angels, folklore, mythology, and pop culture. Especially if your a fan girl or fan boy of anything music you will understand the hype and social media input throughout this whole series. This series isn't just about the twelve or thirteen gods that come back but it tells about the ages with which they come back in as well. Now that we are at a technology based age things are so much more instantly spread across the world. The impact is instant and felt by all.originally posted athttp://foxsdenofreviews.blogspot.com