"How can someone like me marry a princess? What happens if she discovers who I really am? How could I do that to someone's daughter? How could I do that to my parents?"pg. 73OK, so... I'm not sure where to begin in reviewing this book. I thought it was absolutely ridiculous. First I thought it was ridiculous, but maybe Wang was 'stretching things a little' in order to make a happy, fun message about dressing in drag or defying traditional gender roles or something. But there's 'stretching things a little' and then there's THIS, which borders on absurdist parody. Maybe it is absurdist parody? IDK.I think my main problem here is the setting and tone of the book. I think Wang would have been helped a lot by choosing to place this book in a fantasy setting or a setting removed from the real world. Unfortunately, she places it in 1830s Paris. This is a mistake. The horrible juxtaposition of 'taking things seriously' and 'being utterly ridiculous' is SO jarring and off-putting, I couldn't get over it. Especially the insane, ludicrous ending of this book.There are two ways Wang could really go with this book. She could create a fake world in which this was taking place, amp up the comedy a little, and make a more 'grown-up' version of something likePrincess Princess Ever After. Then, the ludicrous and insane actions of the characters would be seen as 'quirky' and 'uplifting' and 'sending a message of love to all the world!'Or, conversely, she could write a book about a prince in 1830s Paris who enjoys dressing like a woman and then explore what kind of things he'd have to deal with, his problems, his obstacles, the struggles he'd go through especially because he is a prince and not a commoner.Instead, she jams together some kind of 2018 narrative about men who like to wear dresses, and acceptance, and love, and being yourself with a time period when things would NOT have gone down like this. At all. These crossed wires are what is making me despise this book.Let's break it down.Sebastian is a prince. Not of a made-up country! Of Belgium. His big secret is that he loves to wear dresses and other clothing designed for women. He plucks a daring seamstress out of her bad employment situation to work for him at the palace. Blah blah blah. Here are a few of my problems:ONE: Let's start with Frances, the seamstress, making a kind of risqué, modern outfit for a discontented teenage 'lady' who is upset at her mother's attempts to marry her off. It's ridiculous. The girl gets in the outfit and comes to the ball. The whole idea of both Frances being able to make such an outfit and the girl being able to get out of the house in it is RIDICULOUS. Then they all stare at her while she shoves pastries in her mouth.TWO: The idea that Sebastian just moseys around Paris all the time, dressed like a woman. WHAT. WHAT. The book even wants me to believe that Juliana, one of the princesses he 'interviewed' for marriage doesn't recognize him! Yeah. It's incredible, as in 'literally not believable.'Nor does the book really touch upon or describe the real terror I think would accompany these little outings. Even in 1998, they would KILL YOU for being a man trying to 'pass' for a woman. Not that Sebastian is transgender, he's not, but he has to try and 'pass as a woman' because obviously if he didn't things would be much, much worse. Better to let people assume he's a woman than portray yourself as blatantly a man in a dress. WHY? In this book it's because he or his family might be embarrassed. In real life it's because he would be raped and murdered, or tortured and murdered. I was completely gobsmacked. Even in 1990s... more then ONE HUNDRED YEARS AFTER THIS BOOK TAKES PLACE, things were very very bad for queer, gay, transgender, LGBTQIA+ people. I don't know if you remember the nineties. It was BAD.Not like things are so hot now, but... yeah the nineties. >.<However, in this book everyone pretends that the worst thing that could happen to our young prince is that he would be 'outed' and face some embarrassment. He does BAFFLING stuff like goes to a bar alone at night in a dress.Then,a man - Marcel, a prince actually - hits on him in a bar thinking he's a woman. Sebastian is drunk. Nothing sexual happens, but it is revealed that 'Lady Crystallia" is really Prince Sebastian.Two things: One, no violence ensues. I don't think in 1830 a heterosexual titled man would be understanding about finding out the person he was hitting on in public was male.Second thing, Marcel, like every other character in this book, makes the absolutely baffling and nonsensical decision to publicly humiliate and expose Sebastian instead of sweeping it under the rug. This makes no sense for a plethora of reasons including but not limited to: in doing so, he will expose the fact that he hit on a man sexually. In doing so he will humiliate and devalue his sister. In doing so he will humiliate his own family. In doing so he will be fucking over another royal family which I'm pretty sure he needs to keep good, strong, diplomatic ties with.THREE: Sebastian's parents basically justshake their heads at him and abandon him. WHICH MAKES NO SENSE. He isn't a commoner, he's the fucking prince of Belgium.FOUR:Then he RUNS AWAY and 'no one knows where he is.' The prince. The PRINCE of a European country 'runs away' and I'm supposed to think a.) that this happened and b.) that no one would keep tabs on him. STUPID.FIVE:He goes to practice in a monastery. A monastery. Where he lives as a monk. In some kind of fucking mash-up ofThis is How It Always Is, Batman, and, IDK, The Next Karate Kid. It's LUDICROUS.SIX:Then he's wandering around Paris in monk's robes.Fuck my life.SEVEN: And this is when things really go off the rails. I know, I know, you are thinking "How could things go MORE off the rails than this?!?!?! Well, let me tell you. They have a fashion show where men come out in drag, but the real crazy-sauce is thatHIS FATHER, THE KING, whips off his royal outfit and dresses in a huge velvet gown and wearing lot of eyeshadow (very 2018 eyeshadow style as well, I must note) struts down the runway.I literally cannot think of a stupider ending to this book, or one that just renders the entire book completely meaningless.You don't have tofight against anything because there literally is nothing to fight against. There are no gender norms in 1830s Paris!!!! The KING and the PRINCE can just easily and casually wear dresses in public and it is all ABSOLUTELY FINE. Love, peace and hugging!What the actual fuck. What was the point of this book then?!!?!? Why didn't she just place it in 2018 if she wanted to write a book that embraces 2018 in every single way except for aesthetics?!!?The dad has absolutely no penchant or desire for wearing dresses, by the way. This is all completely stupid, left field stuff that comes from exactly nowhere, suddenly, like heavy artillery.As the final coup de grâce, I just wanted to say that I did not believe Sebastian and Frances were romantically or sexually interested in each other AT ALL, NOT EVEN IN THE SLIGHTEST, and that this seemed totally wedged in for no reason. I guess we are ALSO supposed to believe that he is going to marry a commoner and a laborer. HA HA HA HA HA HA. His parents are so understanding!His dad even publicly wore a gown for no reason and with absolutely zero social consequences! There are ABSOLUTELY no obstacles to publicly defying gender norms in 1830s Paris.I also was super-annoyed and bothered by Frances's 'fuck my employers' attitude where she seemingly can leave any job at a whim not bothered by, say, HAVING TO EAT FOOD or any practical concerns. It was INSANE. But I've run out of room to rant about this.TL;DR - This book was stupid. Really fucking stupid. I think Wang was going for some kind of promotion of 'love, peace, hugs' and it was hugely jarring considering the subject material and the time period she had chose to insert this subject material into.Why on earth would Wang write a 2018 book with 2018 sensibilities and place it in 1830s Paris. WHY. WHY. It was giving me fits.This book could have been so much better. I'm sad. I see tons of LGBTQIA+ graphic novels coming out now, which is GREAT, the representation is great, but unfortunately this means that (like any other genre or subgenre) as the market is saturated we will get all sorts: good books, mediocre books, and crap. I didn't want this to be crap - I wanted to like it. I can see that other people love it. While I am glad books with characters like this are being published more and more and becoming more and more mainstream, as an INDIVIDUAL who is speaking about an INDIVIDUAL BOOK, I think this book is very dumb. That's my assessment. Can't be helped. I can't pretend to like it just because I am a liberal and the book is spouting liberal ideology. It's honestly one of the stupidest books I've ever read. You can't expect me to take this shit seriously! And I feel like Wang did intend this earnestly.NAMES IN THIS BOOKClementine fSebastian mSophia fFrances fAdelina fImogene fDelilah fEmile mCrystallia mLeroy mJuliana fMarcel mPeter mGeorge mLilian fAurelia fLouise fSir James - horseCaroline f