I had a hard time rating this one, but ultimately decided to be a bit harsh. Of all the storylines to expound on from the show, this is THE ONE not to mess up. What happened to Ursa is the BIGGEST unanswered question from the show, and Ursa is one of my favorite unsung characters. While there are certainly things I thought were okay about her continuation and some pretty cute nods to the show (namely, the origin of Zuko’s blue spirit mask and more details on the Love Amongst the Dragons play), there are just too many things that were rushed, unfinished, or just felt WRONG about Ursa’s story. She makes some decisions in this comic that the Ursa from the show never, ever would have. My biggest problems will be described below, but they will contain heavy spoilers.1. That stupid freaking letter -In looking for clues to where Ursa could have gone, Azula (and later Zuko) find and read a letter Ursa wrote to the real love of her life that reveals Zuko isn’t Ozai’s son. Obviously, Azula wants it as evidence that she is the true heir to the Fire Nation throne. It also turns out that Ozai knew of this letter (he intercepted all of his wife’s mail), and the story uses this as an explanation for why he has always hated Zuko.First of all, I hate the idea that Ozai’s treatment of Zuko needs some big, dumb plot twist of an explanation. An explanation already exists that was beautifully simple and felt movingly REAL: toxic families exist. Parents exist that care more about their own status than about their children. Parents exist that think their children should be obedient above all else. Parents exist that think children who refuse to live as they are told need to be punished with physical force and emotional cruelty. Parents exist that equate emotional sensitivity with weakness. Ozai is that parent. His hatred for Zuko is very simple and selfish: Ozai sees his children only as objects to advance or hinder his own status. He viewes Zuko’s compassion as feebleness. He sees Zuko’s imperfect bending as embarrassing and disappointing. He sees Zuko as a failure who isn’t living up to his father’s heritage. What does a parent like this do with such a child? Berates him, punishes him, and sometimes ignores him completely. It’s really that simple. This simplicity made their entire family dynamic feel poignantly real and tragic, and I just don’t think it needed the over explanation offered by the comic. It cheapens their already interesting and complex familial relationships.Second, writing his letter goes against everything Ursa (from the show) believes in. If Ozai is the epitome of the abusive father, Ursa is the epitome of the protective mother. Ozai is a prince of a powerful nation, so Ursa herself doesn’t have a lot of power to stand against him. Even so, she does EVERYTHING she can within her small sphere of influence to protect her children, no matter the cost to herself. When Ozai displays public cruelty towards Zuko, Ursa still reaches out to comfort her son. If you are living in an abusive relationship (If Ozai is this cruel to his children, he would CERTAINLY be equally cruel to his wife), speaking out against your spouse is a HUGE risk to your own personal safety. Ursa knows this, but does it anyway, because she loves her children THAT MUCH. When it ultimately comes down to it, Ursa sacrifices the one thing she cares about (a life with her children) for the safety of her children. She is one of the most altruistic, brave characters in the show. THIS is the essence of Ursa as a character.Now, would this same character, knowing how abusive her spouse is, knowing how vulnerable her kindhearted son is to his father’s tyranny, WRITE DOWN PHYSICAL EVIDENCE THAT WOULD PAINT HER SON AS A TARGET?! Ursa even suspects Ozai is reading her mail, but she does this anyway. In no freaking world would Ursa ever do anything to further endanger her children. If Ozai is this cruel to Zuko THINKING Zuko is his son, what would he do if he suspected Zuko wasn’t his child and heir? I wouldn’t put it past Ozai to outright kill Zuko if he discovered this information, and I don’t think Ozai would have encountered a lot of resistance if he attempted to do so. Ursa would know all this, and she would NEVER endanger her children like that. Even assuming Zuko would somehow survive his father’s cruelty to adulthood, it would STILL endanger him down the road by putting the legitimacy of his rule into question.The real kicker is that it’s later revealed that this letter isn’t even true! Ursa wrote it “trying to hurt” Ozai and saying “It was just wishful thinking.” I don’t believe Ursa would write this letter even if it were true, but to endanger her son further for such petty reasons? Never ever ever! This paints Ursa as a very stupid, selfish character, which is just the antithesis of who she really is.2. Oops, I forgot!Later in the story, it is revealed that Ursa had her face changed by a spirit so she could start a new life without fear of further retaliation from Ozai. Fine. But she ALSO asked this spirit to wipe her memories of her past life with Ozai. Unfortunately, this would also include wiping away her memories of her children. She will no longer remember anything about her children or even the fact that she has children. She will be able to begin her life fresh without these “painful” memories. Now, this isn’t a REQUIREMENT of the face change. The spirit changes plenty of faces without impacting memories and even tells Ursa she doesn’t have to lose her memory if she doesn’t want to. Ursa chooses of her own free will to forget her children.Again, this just feels so unlike the Ursa from the show, and it really cheapens the sacrifice she made for them. While it would be painful to live her life with the knowledge she can never see her children again and with the worry that her children are still living in an abusive, dangerous environment, that is the life she chose in order to protect them, and I honestly don’t think Ursa would WANT to forget them, no matter how anguished she is that she can never be with them. While I’m sure the memories of them would bring her some pain, I honestly think, for Ursa, they would bring her more joy. She loves her children more than anything, and I can’t imagine her ever choosing to forget them. Forgetting them also feels selfish and irresponsible when they are still in such a dangerous environment. The Ursa I know would wait and watch and hope she could someday be reunited with them.Also, at one point Ursa even mentions that getting a new face will allow her to sneak in to visit her children, which seems MUCH MORE like something Ursa would want. But when presented with the chance to forget them entirely, Ursa kind of seems to forget this plan for no reason. With this alternative, I can’t imagine why Ursa would EVER choose to forget the children who were her whole reason for living, and this whole decision just doesn’t make sense for her character.3. Poor AzulaSo, the other Ursa-adjacent storyline that deserved a proper wrapping up is the fate of poor Azula. Having thrived under her father’s cruel attentions, she begins to crack towards the end of the show when she starts to realize that cruelty and fear aren’t working for her anymore. Her friends abandon her, and the father she has spent her whole life trying to please shows his regard for her isn’t as high as she thought it was. So she starts to remember and imagine her mother, whose love was unconditional. Unlike Ozai, Ursa didn’t care if Azula was perfect; she loved her regardless of ability. THIS is what made Azula crack in the show: the seed of the idea that she has been living her life by the ideals of the wrong parent. That love doesn’t grow from usefulness. This is why Azula was so conflicted, and this idea has the potential to lead to a very cathartic redemption plot. If Azula finds and confronts her mother, maybe she will come to realize she IS genuinely loved and doesn’t have to live life by her father’s cruel philosophy.When Azula does catch up to her mother, she basically throws some fire around, yells in her mother’s face, and is run off like a cartoon villain. Ursa, not having any memory of Azula, says “I’m sorry if I didn’t love you enough.” Which completely misses the point of Azula’s conflict with her mother. It isn’t that Ursa didn’t love Azula enough; it is that Azula didn’t know how to RECOGNIZE or ACCEPT unconditional love. Likewise, Ursa didn’t spend more time with Zuko because she loved him more, but because of her two children, he was the one much more in need of protection because of his gentle nature (and the fact he was the heir, which made him much more of a target). THESE are the things Azula needs closure on, and THESE are the things that should have been addressed when they finally caught up to Ursa.But not only does Azula never have a conversation with Ursa after she regains her memories, but Ursa never even mentions Azula when she and Zuko have a conversation. Not even to ask where she is or how she is doing. So not only does Azula not get the chance to have a much needed conversation with her mother and explore the conflicting feelings she has been having since the show ended, but we the reader don’t even get the catharsis of hearing Ursa confirm her feelings for Azula are as uncomplicated and loving as we all know them to be.Again, this is a huge disservice not only to Ursa’s character, but to Azula’s as well. Maybe Azula’s arc will conclude in further volumes, but as far as this contained “Search” arc is concerned, Azula’s story is a huge, underwhelming disappointment.While this comic has some good visuals and neat ideas here and there, I think these problems are a huge disservice to basically every character involved. Ursa and Azula deserved better.