Tintin returns to the Middle East25 February 2012Once again I simply underestimated Herge's ability to be able to exceed the benchmark that he set with his previous comic, and while the Red Sea Sharks, in the way of comedy, is probably nowhere near as farsical as the Calculus Affair, this comic still manages to raise the bar. An interesting note is that at this stage it appears that Herge is beginning to slow down on the production of comics that had pretty much been a mainstay for the previous three decades, and from here there are only another four that he produced. However, come 1959, we encounter the first of another series of classic European comics: Asterix and Obelix. However, these are another series that I will consider a little down the track, and may be ones that I would also like to read (once again being a mainstay of my childhood) but in some ways, while not wanting to underrate Asterix, I feel that they do not come close to Herge's brilliance.The Red Sea Sharks is about the illegal arms and slave trade. This is not the first comic that deals with arms smuggling (though the Broken Ear deals with a more legitimate aspect of the trade, that being made by legal corporations – as Amnesty International demonstrates, the worlds biggest arms dealers today each occupy seats on the UN security council). One noticeable thing about corporate arms dealers though is that on the surface they only interact with governments and armies and can be restricted in who they sell too, however asMark Thomaspoints out in his bookAs Used on Nelson Mandelaarms trades can include the sale of troop carriers, which enable tyranical governments to better oppress their people.After a night on the town the Captain and Tintin return to Marlinspike to discover that Prince Abdullah has been sent to stay with them after a revolt in Kemed has left his father without a throne and hiding in the mountains. The short period in Marlinspike is simply farcical, with all of the Marlinspike jokes coming thick and fast, as well as all of the annoying practical jokes that Abdullah plays. There is also Cuthburt with another strange invention, and also being as absent minded as usual. As there is an adventure on the horizon, Tintin convinces the Captain that maybe travel to the middle east is in store. Much to his disappointment (the Captain really does not seem to like adventures, he is getting a little too old) he realises that an adventure is going to be much better than putting up with the antics of Abdullah and Cuthbert.The comedy slows down a bit once they leave Europe, however much of it is tied to the fact that Captain Haddock is not much of an adventurer. In one instance they are forced to travel across country in the middle of the night to escape patrols and poor of Captain Haddock just simply cannot stay awake. However it is what Herge has sitting behind the scenes that makes this such a fascinating story. Obviously there is the arms trade, but as they discuss the arms trade it is also revealed that slaves are being traded as well, and the method is nothing short of genius.The gangsters are offering poor muslims from Sub-Saharan Africa the opportunity to take a pilgrimage to Mecca, but when they arrive at Mecca they are sold off as slaves never to be seen by their friends and family again. However they are blinded by their Islamic faith in that while it is eventually revealed to them their fate, they are torn between their duty to make the pilgrimage and the knowledge that they will never actually arrive. The way Herge paints these innocent Muslims is almost heart-wrenching. Some might suggest racism, but I do not think so because I do not see this as a criticism against Islam but rather the callousness of those who seek to use people's faith to further their own gain. Unfortunately this happens far too much, particularly in some elements of the Christian Church (though I note that Herge tends not to bring Christianity into his comics). Sometimes I wonder, with the beautiful detail that he puts into this comic, whether he was Muslim himself, but that is unclear. What we do know is that he went to extra-ordinary lengths to understand and bring a culture to us the reader.In this comic a number of re-occurring villains return. We have Dawson fromThe Blue Lotus, Muller fromLand of the Black Gold, Mr Mate from a number of comics, and of course, the Marquis di Gorgonzolla (whom I will not name). This is not the end of some of these characters, but it seems that they are all returning to confront Tintin and his meddling ways. All in all this is a brilliant comic, and with many similar books and stories, it is something I am going to miss once I have finished the final four.