This is simply amazing! Literally! It takes an absolutely ordinary character with no real talents or powers and writes her story in such a way that it becomes larger than life. It’s what comic books/graphic novels are really all about, at least from this reader’s point of view. For, at heart, I feel that one of the main reasons why anyone cracks one of these open is to transfer their ordinary life onto the pages of these fantastical illustrations that somehow briefly becomes their own, if but for a moment. Here, the margin from the reality of the average life is narrowed that much more in the character of a regular gal named Halo Jones and in the process becomes more even more accessible in this particular regard. Albeit, far removed in the future with aliens, space travel and technology that is well beyond our own.Overall, Alan Moore is a huge talent whose accomplishments are well known to most of us already. Even those are somehow unfamiliar with his name at this point have at least unknowingly watched a few of the many film adaptations of his work. He’s scary good and much deserving of his reputation. Particularly so in the case of this series, which was abandoned midway and never completed and yet still manages to draw one into it so skillfully that you forgive its few minor faults of silliness as well as the with foreknowledge that you there is no real resolution or ending to it.Although this leading us down a path to nowhere is an unforgivable crime, how this came about is completely understandable, as well as just another reason why Moore is so beloved. It’s his integrity and status as an underground champion that is at the heart of the matter here. You see, the company that originally issued these books had sole rights to all stories and characters that Moore created and in protest he stopped work on this project until a new contract more in his favor could be negotiated. All of us are still waiting some thirty years later.So, who can really blame him for wanting control and ownership over his own work? For perspective, just think of the early rock ‘n’ roll and blues artists and how they all lost millions over their brilliant creations in a similar way. Rather than call Moore greedy and unreasonable let’s just agree to find fault with the real culprit and shit all over the publishing company instead, shall we?Subsequently, only three out of a projected five books of this series were ever published before all the trouble with legalities put an end to it all. The saga of the unemployed and unskilled Halo was meant to follow her life from youth to old age. This is something that is by itself is an interesting premise for this genre alone. Sadly, all we have of her story is her life up her mid thirties…but what a ride it is! Also, Ian Gibson’s wonderful black and white illustrations are considered among his best work here as well.The first book of this series merely seems concerned with setting the stage and didn’t necessarily grip me by its story, which I found somewhat meandering and bordering on pointless for all the action that DOES NOT take place here. There’s also the fact that there is an entirely different slang used here that you have to grow accustomed to, as well as the same for the overall foreign environment and setting of this story with all of their futuristic alien names. Rather than explaining it all through some all-knowing narrator, or similar device, Moore just shows us through actions. The back-story flashbacks eventually happen but only in the later books.If you’re like me, acclimating to these things could try ones patience to the point of losing it. Initially, I even thought that this was going to be the one thing I was going to hate of Moore’s but I kept reading it regardless and I’m glad I did. Overall, this author is not necessarily interested in pleasing or accommodating the fickle tastes of the average comic book reader. He seems to write merely to suit himself and if we are willing to follow him I think that this nearly always pays off.Things become much more livelier by the second book and there are some intriguing premises and classic story devices used here that kept my interest. Of course, almost anything would have been an improvement over the first one. Here, near Shakespearean or classic Greek drama of love, betrayal, and something called a rat king are introduced. Also, by this time the jarring and unfamiliar slang starts becoming more understandable and for me even warmly embraced.In book three all the stops are pulled out and this story starts to really take off. Halo enters a complete downward spiral of depression and alcoholism over her lack of direction in life that eventually leads her to the desperation of enlisting in the galactic army. This takes her to some interesting but yet familiar alien territory that one can readily recognize as either extra-terrestrial versions of Vietnam or Korea, take your pick. After some harrowing experiences as a foot soldier Halo has a complete mental breakdown and once she eventually recovers she begrudgingly re-enlists again with no other options available to her. For at this point in her life, this is the only occupation she is fit or qualified for, let alone among the few even available to her.From here on out, the science used here in regards to the concept of time is absolutely spectacular and mind-blowing and the handling of this is just one of the many reasons why Moore is so revered. Moreover, his main characters start to become fleshed out more fully and even the minor ones start to become more interesting as well. Moore’s understanding of a pace of a story is simply masterful here.Of course then it all ends. If I could be so bold as to suppose where some of this may have been heading, I would guess that whatever was in store for us in the next books would have been built around a confusion of reality and fantasy stemming from Halo’s previous mental breakdown. The seeds of this seem to be planted in this last book but beyond this there really is no telling where this story could have gone in the hands of such an incredible artist and sadly we may never know. Overall, I think this is still so good that you’ll find yourself wanting to know exactly how this story DOESN’T end for yourself and I highly recommend that you do with absolutely no reservations.