Tintin was one of the comic book heroes of my childhood. I'm going to read my way through the series again as I listen to a radio program about him, and his creator, Hergé. After a few standalone books comes this adventure that spans two books, (books 11 and 12), The Secret of the Unicorn, and Red Rackham's Treasure. The Secret of the Unicorn begins with Tintin finding a model ship in a market. He buys it, and wants to give it to the captain, but things don't go to plan, the ship gets stolen.I think these two Tintin books are the best of the series, or at least up there with the very best. The two books are different, but everything works in both of them. I think they may be the perfect Tintin adventure, even though The Secret of the Unicorn is the first book in the series where Tintin spends the entire book in Belgium. It is a different kind of adventure from the usual glob trotting Boy Scout we usually get.In some sense The Secret of the Unicorn is closer to a mystery than adventure. There is a theft, or perhaps more accurately, there are committed two seemingly unrelated crimes. First there is the theft of the model ship, which Tintin starts to investigate, and soon realises that behind that theft there is something deeper. At the same time Thomson and Thompson are investigating a series of pick pocketing. The two cases don't seem to have anything in common, but of course the two will eventually prove to be connected.As a mystery I think it works quite well. It draws the reader from one clue to the next, and does so fairly logically. And one gradually realises what is going on. By the time Hergé wrote this one, he had become a good writer. This isn't the barely connected cliffhangers that one got in the first few books, but a plot that well thought out.This is obviously a children's book, and they are not just about the adventure. The other angle of the Tintin formula is the humour. He mixes these two elements together in the books to various degree. Here he does a good job with mixes these elements together into a great cocktail. Thomson and Thompson are in good comic form, but the humour doesn't just rest on them, but also on Tintin, Snowy, Captain Haddock, and other characters. At the same time none of these characters are there just for the humour, even Thomson and Thompson get their moments where they show something else. It all just works wonderfully together in this volume.