Tintin was one of the biggest chunks of my childhood. I had all 24 books, which my mother graciously and patiently purchased for me, one by one, sometimes multiple volumes at a time, because I couldn’t help myself. I have individual memories associated with each of them. It’s hard not to, when you reread a series so many times. One of the mass appeals of Tintin for me was the fact that I could go absolutely anywhere in the world with him – the sea, the air, Europe, Asia, North and South America, and even the moon. I have read the series as a whole no fewer than 50 times, with the vast majority of that number being in Persian, but a few in English as well. It’s been at least 13 or 14 years since I’ve done a proper run through, and I think I’m ready to embark on the journey again. Let’s see what memories are pulled out of the vault, if any. Throughout it, I will be using Michael Farr’sTintin: The Complete Companion. There is something so joyful in being able to read a work deeper, when that work is emotionally charged and holds an important place in your heart.As Farr mentions, the perfectionist tendencies of Hergé and his attention to detail were key aspects of the longevity of Tintin. “By devising a character who would appeal to children as much as grown-ups, though for often quite different reasons, Hergé struck gold… In fact the appeal has proved much wider: from children first learning to read to aged Tintinophiles… The child will be gripped by the excitement of Tintin, the comedy, even farce. The adult will additionally find political satire and parody, puns and prescience. The most dedicated Tintinologist, as he or she may be called, may have read the stories any number of times and still discover something new: they bear repeated rereading. The adventures, like their hero, are inexhaustible.” Amen.We begin with Tintin prowling around in Soviet Russia, on a mission to report for his newspaper, Le Petit Vingtième. This first volume is decidedly less spectacular than the ones that follow, in both story and art. There are far too many setbacks for Tintin for it to feel like a smooth adventure, and you can clearly tell that Hergé has not found his feet with the drawings. Farr puts it perfectly: “Most notably the very first Tintin adventures lack a pre-planned scenario, instead a high degree of last minute improvisation propels the action from one scene to the next.” Published in 1929, this first book draws heavily onMoscou sans voiles(Moscow Unveiled), a book written by Joseph Douillet and detailing the daily lives of people in Soviet Russia and the doings of the Bolsheviks. The highlights of this book are lifted from Douillet’s book: an election episode, in which the communist party remains in power with the use of guns by officials to intimidate the “voting public”, and a tour of the “Potemkin factories, where industrial activity is simulated by burning straw” for the benefit of “gullible British trade unionists”. The latter image has remained with me for years – honestly. The commissar is pointing to the smoking chimney stacks behind him, saying: “Contrary to the tales put out by the bourgeois nations, our factories work to full capacity!” Meanwhile, the British delegates look on, murmuring “Beautiful” or “Very nice”, while smoking pipes and wearing tweed jackets.The next few panels show what is really going on – the factory setups are cardboard (I am assuming a convincing painting of the outer views), a stack of hay is being burned for each “chimney”, and the noise coming from the factories is man-made, but it’s a person deliberately banging some pieces of metal to make the whole act convincing.Hergé was not the biggest fan of this volume, and only allowed for it to be included in collections of Tintin books in 1973. Later Tintin books come to showcase meticulous research and accuracy (the agenda and colonialist paradigms, however, as we will see with the second volume, does not necessarily always go away). Either way, it, like most other Tintin books, remains a rich source of historical facts, details, propaganda, and imagery. A nice depiction of Brussels’ Gare du Nord station ends our first adventure.