Let's just take a moment to bask at the gloryfulness that is the cover of this book.What do you imagine?I imagine a runaway, who's been hunted by shadow monsters because of a scared power she held deep within herself, most probably tied to her by a curse. Maybe she lived with the people of the night, trying to destroy that evil spirit that always possesses the neighborhood cats. I imagine a heroine that shouldn't be taken lightly, who's strong and passionate about what she does. A powerful one too, who is far off from stereotypes. A novel full of lurking ancient magic, witches, sacred spells and ancient ghosts. A twisted story that leaves you on edge and your head spinning at every turn of the page. I imagine well-developed characters with distinct backstories and fun dialogues. Just the perfect story my body was itching to read.And this is exactly why you shouldn't judge a book by it's cover.This book did nothing to capture my attention.Nothing.As soon as I got a couple pages in, I knew exactly how the book would turn out. I found myself rolling my eyes at their attempts at conversation.I found myself constantly growing bored and wanting to just stop reading this.Not a good sign, guys. The only thing that kept this book along were the random bits of action, though it failed to explain the reason behind the attacks. - Other than, of course, to allow the author introduce something new to the book.She walks into a creepy alley for some strange reason and meets some guys who*gasp*aren't exactly friendly.Hmm, Rory, I wonder why people don't walk into a dark deserted alley in a city crawling with people.You'd think the main character would have a little more common sense.Guy 1:"Don't be scared, we're nice guys."Guy 2:"They're nice, but I'm not."They attack her, andsurprise!stranger to the rescue! Sounds a bit familiar to you? I wonder why. Just convenient, isn't it? She walks into an alley for no actual reason at all and learns of her true powers. I was expecting a little more creativity and depth to the story instead of the characters just doing things for the sake of moving the story along.Beginning with Rory, moving to Tokyo after the divorce of her parents, shes thrust into a completely new world. There wasn't much to her character other than her bland personality and the fact that she found almosteverything"weird". Like it amazes me how she could look at a kid feeding on spirits and find it "weird" or her vision goes all supernatural and she suddenly sees a freaking path to a place shes never been to and just goes, "Oh wow, that was weird."How?!?!Let's not even mention her simple train of thoughts. I'm not even kidding, 60% of the book is just Rory and her going:.Oh, spare me.On to her group, we have the Over-Excited Pinky Pie aka Ayane, who's unnaturally happy almost all the time (although, I must say, I kinda like her); Mr. Unnecessarily-Pissed (Shirai), angry street destroyer extraordinaire; and Boy Helpless McMerlin (Nikaido), who seriously gives me the creeps. Huh, now guess who doesn't want to be team leader. Sooriginal, am I right?Other than the really slow and painful start, it begins to pick up near the end (Part of the reason why this didn't get a 1 but a 3). As predictable as this was, I did like that mysterious vibe it gave off. I'll will continue on with this series to see if it gets any better. I recommend this to those who aren't heavy/picky readers. Not much to say other than that really.*slumps and tries to hide the disappointment*Sigh.