Oh boy this was hard to rate because I really loved and also thought a lot of it was very stupid... I've decided that enjoyment triumphs, but definitely with some caveats.Here's what I really liked:- I like teen superheroes and I think these guys are well done! They feel like teens (although the artists didn't all get the message... more on that later) and have pretty realistic concerns even while they're being, you know, superheroes- The team end up feeling like friends! One of my least favourite things with the MCU is that they don't devote any time to making the team actually feel like... theylikeeach other, so I'm glad this gave me my fix of actual bonding etc.- I get the complaints that there isn't enough fleshed out aboutwhyKate is here at all but that doesn't change the fact that I love Kate :)- Cassie wears whatever random baggy stuff she wants to in non-superhero mode- Billy and Teddy's relationship is so cute! And they actually get called boyfriends. Disney's first gay character could never...- The big fight scenes in the last issue are just GORGEOUS. Also I just like the art in this in general- The plots are pretty solid - they'd be really good if the arcs got more than 6 issues each, but I digress. Iron Lad going back in time to prevent himself becoming Kang the Conqueror is a fun plot and is a good plot catalyst, and the Kree-Skull custody battle is fun tooAnd here's what I didn't:- My biggest issue is that this run is very rushed. As I said, each arc is only 6 issues each and the plots just seem way too big for that much space, especially with the effort of squeezing in convoluted backstories among that- The good old sexualisation of characters strikes again... these characters are CHILDREN goddamnit... this is also I think a bit of a symptom of the fact that the artists just aren't great at drawing teens- WHY did it have to be the ONLY black character who was taking drugs to become a superhero... especially as he literally gets superpowers in the end anyway it adds NOTHING to the plot- One of the issues starts with Cassie and Iron Lad kissing for... no apparent reason? I thought I'd missed an issue or something but no, it is just a romance with absolutely no lead up at all. Actually there are a number of romance-type things in this that I really didn't like... Eli is implied to like Kate but purely because he's mean to her?? What's that all about. I've seen some people suggest that they put gratuitous straight relationships in there to distract from the gay one they put in, which I guess is fair enough, but they could've at least tried to make it make sense...- Patriot just kind of sucks in this. He's sexist, rude and he keeps being the person that suggests they sacrifice their friend to avoid a fight. AND he's the guy that lies to everyone. They could've written him as a guy that was trying to be pragmatic with suggesting that the good of the many outweighs their friend but NO he just sucks.- They kill off Teddy's mom for... no reason really. The Super Skrull even says sorry afterwards it was SO pointless. Poor guy only had one parent to start with... you didn't have to murder his mother in front of him