I was a little late to reading this one but I'm always looking forward to the newest addition to the Fazbear Frights series and oh my gosh this one did not disappoint! This was by far the scariest FNaF book to date (including the original series!) Each story brought a new and unique horror that left me unsettled for days upon days after reading. So let's dive right into the review ~1:35am:4.5 stars"Delilah knew Ella had disappeared that fast because the doll had been there. She had to have been there. Something touched Delilah. The touch had been baby s0ft. Ella soft. Little fingers. Just a hint of a brush against Delilah's nightshirt-covered shoulder. No more than a hint of contact. But it had been enough to turn Delilah's intestines into a tangled mass of fear and transform her blood into liquid nitrogen. She felt like she was being frozen and broken apart from within."Delilah is a 22 year-old divorcee who had been in foster homes her whole life up until she was a teenager. With the dream of having a baby ripped away from her when her husband leaves her, Delilah begins working at a diner to pay the bills. One day she makes a stop at a local garage sale and finds a beautiful baby doll that looks frighteningly similar to the baby she had always dreamt of having. Having to take her home with her, Delilah welcomes Ella into her life. Upon realizing that the doll was also part alarm clock, Delilah sets Ella to wake her up at 1:35 to leave for work. To Delilah’s disappointment, Ella fails to wake her up and in her frustration Delilah throws Ella in the garbage. That night, at 1:35am, she is awoken by the alarm that she thought she had gotten rid of. Each night brings a new horror as Delilah begins to awake at exactly 1:35am every day with the situation steadily worsening. How will she ever escape Ella’s grasp on her?Being an older reader it was a very nice surprise to be reading about a twenty three year old woman rather than a pre-teen in this story! This was by far one of my favorite Fazbear Frights stories so far and definitely my second favorite ending! It was pretty frustrating for me that we never found outwhyorhowElla was haunting Delilah or if Delilah was even imagining it - in typical Scott Cawthon style there is simply no explanation and that left me feeling annoyed but honestly I was not expecting anything else from a FNaF book. Something I love about these stories is how they never have happy endings and that is what makes them so creepy at the same time, and 1:35am’s ending comes second only to Count the Ways (the final story from Into the Pit) in the spook department! It’s always baffling to me how a story aimed mostly towards a younger audience could get so dark and actually leave me, a 20 year old, feeling spooked and send shivers down my spine! That is why despite some frustration, I give this story 4.5 stars.Room For One More:4.5 stars""We've had a sudden vacancy, I'm afraid, and we are in urgent need of someone to fill the position.""Guy up and quit on you?" Stanley had asked."In a matter of speaking," the man had said, looking past Stanley. "Unfortunately, the prior security guard...passed away suddenly. Very tragic.""Stanley is recently single and having a hard time handling it. His feelings of being lonely and depressed aren’t helped by working nights in a dark factory as a security guard where he has zero human interaction. He’s worked at this facility for over a year and all he knows about the place is he has to watch monitors to make sure nothing gets out, whatever that means. Most nights Stanley will sleep on the job and awake to nothing gone wrong, but as of late something strange has been happening. A little doll dressed as a ballerina has showed up on his desk and speaks to him through an automated voice-box, but each time he falls back asleep and awakes again the doll has mysteriously disappeared. As this continues to happen something inside Stanley begins to change, he has a horribly aching sore throat and one by one his limbs are becoming swollen and numb, heavy and unable to be moved. Something is wrong with Stanley but will he be able to figure it out before its too late?I’m thrilled about this book being about people in their twenties! It makes the stories feel more mature and relatable when you’re reading about people closer to your age. But I’m not gonna lie, this one threw me off a bit. I wasn’t sure where Scott was going with this one but I wasnotexpectingthat. My skin crawled as I read the final pages of this story and by far this has been one of the most disturbing conclusions yet and I've been left very unsettled since finishing this one. It was a nice nod to the games to have the security guard aspect and after finishing this story is was very obviously a retelling of night four in Sister Location with Ballora and the Minireenas. This felt like one of the shorter stories in this collection but it definitely packed a punch. Room For One More is by far one of the weirdest and most disturbing Fazbear Frights stories and I’m left feeling pretty squeamish after it but that is what makes me love it! (fun fact: i read this one at about three in the morning and then fell asleep and had nightmares all night!)The New Kid:4.5 stars"When he threw both arms straight out to his sides, an ear-stabbing metallic clap resounded off all four walls around them. The clap was followed by a fingernails-on-a-blackboard scraping sound. As abruptly as it started, the scraping sound ended with a loud SLAP. This triggered a cascade of snapping sounds, like dozens of steel animal traps springing into place one right after the other."Devon and Mick are best friends who wouldn't be described by anybody in their class as popular. Devon has a crush on Heather, the prettiest girl in his class, but is struggling to get her attention. One day, a new boy arrives in class and Kelsey is instantly friends with everybody; and to their surprise, he's even nice to Mick and Devon. After the boys' clubhouse in the woods it torn down, Kelsey offers to help them build a new hangout in his backyard. The day they're all supposed to work on their new project, Kelsey ditches the boys to hang out with Heather and the other popular kids from class. Overcome with anger, Devon devises a plan for revenge. For everything to work in his favor, all Devon needs to do is lure Kelsey to the abandoned pizzeria he's discovered hidden deep in the woods.It was a bit disappointing to be reading about young teenagers again after having two stories in a row about older individuals and I found it a bit difficult to adjust back into the minds of younger kids again. For the first half of this story I was really not into it at all, nothing creepy had happened and I had no idea where this story was headed. It wasn't until close to the end of this one that I really started to love it. Readers get to see Devon's descent into madness as he becomes overcome with jealousy and rage. My stomach was in knots as I turned each page! The detail and sheer horror of The New Kid is abrupt yet haunting at the same time. Reading the guilt and fear through the points of view of Devon and Mick was some of the best writing that Scott Cawthon has provided so far! While this story could have been a lot shorter with far less detail in the beginning, it ended up being one of my favorites overall! There's something in the way every one of these stories ends - how the last couple paragraphs make your jaw hit the floor as the realization of what's happening hits the reader and it never fails to disappoint!Once again we have a development in the story of the Stitchwraith. It's hard to get a grasp on this creature but this piece of the puzzle seems like an important one. Readers learn that a scientist was using "haunted" objects to transfer the energy of agony and fear into machines and endoskeletons. I have a feeling this story won't make sense until the very last Fazbear Frights installment and I'm anticipating a big shock! It's less than a month until the next book and I eagerly await more insight into the world of FNaF and the Stitchwraith!