Quintessential K.A. Merikan story.This was, overall, very good and enjoyable. It wasn't stand out or anything, but certainly a fun Merikan Christmas story, with all the killers/gore/morally questionable characters you could ask for.I really enjoyedSaintandRowanoverall. Especially at first. Honestly, I think I was enjoying the not-killers phase of their relationship more. They were just so sweet and cute and the chemistry was chemistry-ing.Once Rowan found out Saint was a killer and he freaked out, and took awhile to wrap his head around everything, some that chemistry fell a little for me. Not too much, and ultimately it was better Rowan found out earlier, I just...they were building such a good thing - yes, I know with lies since Saint wasn't telling him who he really was - and I was so enjoying it.Honestly, I think I would love these ladies to write a non-dark romance one day, because the potential was there. Not that I don't love the dark romances from these two, but after so many of these stories, and getting a taste of a non-dark romance from them, I'm kinda craving a little bit of a change from them.I mean, don't get me wrong, the rest of this with the killing of the men who killed Rowan's family was so Merikan like and it didn't miss a beat, but....idk, when these two were just...Rowan and Saint, seemingly regular guys, they were vibe-ing so well together, and I was loving it.Once all was revealed some of that spark was lost. I mean, I still enjoyed them becoming a killing team together, but I didn'tloveit. It just wasn't hitting the same for me. Hence my star off for this story.It just became...good but not amazing. It just...became another Merikan dark romance, nothing out of the ordinary or all that special about it.Still enjoyable, don't get me wrong, still engaging, just not as amazing as it could have been. As it was shaping up to be.I mean, at the same time, these ladies shouldn't have to change their MO, but after a lot of the same type of characters in so many books, it gets a little overrated after awhile, is all.I did enjoy that Saint wasn't just a killer, that the side he was showing Rowan before he found outwasalso him, so that is definitely a plus. He wasn't putting up a front, he was just being him...without the killing.But ultimately they wouldn't have worked without Rowan knowing ALL of Saint, and really, all of himself, so it was good, in the end, that he found out fairly early and had time to process it all and come to his own choice about Saint.And of course, I do love the "will do anything for you or hurt anyone who tries to hurt you" trope. The "us against the world" and "I will protect you above all else" tropes. Saint chose Rowan as his and nothing and no one (except maybe Rowan himself) was going to take him away from him.So overall, this was good and it was enjoyable, it just wasn't anything stand out in these author's works. They have better out there.But still, if you're looking for something a tad different for a holiday read - Christmas but with death and gore - then this is the book for you. And still a solid read overall.Definitely worth a read 😘