Originally Reviewed onThe Book SmugglersRosemary's Babyis easily one of my favorite horror movies of all time. Rosemary Woodhouse's descent into terror and paranoia, her protectiveness of her unborn child, the simultaneously comical & horrifying geriatric satanists next door - these are all expertly crafted horror elements that speak to the frightening aspects of pregnancy, ambition, and betrayal. (This is to say nothing of Mia Farrow's - and Ruth Gordon's - powerful performance!) When I read the premise of this book and saw both Stephen King's resounding endorsement and theRosemary's Babycomparison, I was hooked.Breed, unfortunately, is noRosemary's Baby.Novak's novel is a bonafide adrenaline-fueled page turner with a cool concept - but lacks grace and skill in its telling, and never actually lives up to the potential of said cool concept. But I'm getting ahead of myself. First, the story:Alex Twisden is one of New York's upper-crust, Upper East Side dwelling elite. The Twisdens are the type of wealthy, storied New York family that presides on the Met's board of trustees, that owns multiple properties (including a full townhouse in the middle of Manhattan), whose children go to the most prestigious of preparatory academies. When Alex meets Leslie, an ambitious young editor at a respected New York publishing house, the two hit it off immediately. Soon after, they fall in love and are married, with only one rain cloud obscuring their happiness: they are unable to get pregnant. After trying everything from in vitro to spiritual meditation, the Twisdens are at the end of their rope - but then they hear about a secretive (and fittingly expensive) doctor in Ljubljana, Slovenia who has an aggressive reproductive enhancement serum. Using a cocktail of hormones and other goodies from particularly vigorous animals (including the Goby fish), the Twisdens finally get everything they wanted and more - Leslie gives birth to two beautiful twins (and one malformed third child that is quietly whisked away).But the birth of twins Alice and Adam comes at a terrible cost, changing Alex and Leslie forever. Ten years later, Adam realizes just how strange his parents are and knows that he and his sister must leave before their doting parents devour them whole.Breedis a frustrating exercise in horror fiction - at its core,Breedhas a great, solid hook. The pregnancy gone terribly wrong thing is a compelling storyline - cross that with a family of significant means and power in New York City, and you've got one hell of a premise. Unfortunately,Breedtakes what should have been an exorcise in good old fashioned filial cannibalism and unnecessarily protracts the story with over-embellishments, strained writing, and a lack of any deeper true horror.*Part of the problem is that all of our characters are doomed in that first chapter of the book - there's no restraint or mystery, and Novak's hand is tipped completely by the end of the first 30 or so pages. Add to this the fact that wemiss the first ten years of Adam and Alice's lives- Novak completely bypasses any tension building, throwing away the opportunity to create a "something iswrongwith Mommy and Daddy" atmosphere of dread, jumping all the way to the twins' escape from parents that have already lost their shit (and inspire little to no sympathy to readers - we don't know or care for these people at all). It's an annoying shortcut to bypass character and plot development in exchange for pure action, and that is incredibly frustrating.Not to say the action is bad - if there's one thingBreeddoes right, it is the frenzied, hormone-fueled drive of the book as Alex Twisden chases his spawn all over midtown Manhattan. There is a cinematic quality toBreed- not so much of the Polanski variety, but more of the Michael Bay school of fast-paced, crude action. Yet, even in this respectBreedfalters by way of writing, which is at times ridiculously forced and inflated. For example, at one point, a character discovers the Twisdens' basement of terror and takes in the full magnitude of the parents' transformation, she thinks to herself:That moment of blindness. How she wishes it could have lasted longer. Not just a moment - an hour. Not just an hour - an eternity. For what she sees now is by far the most gruesome sight she has ever beheld, or even imagined. What she sees now makes death preferable to having to live with the memory of what is right before her eyes.Really?Really?Excepting the fact that I don't think anyone would actually thinkdeathis preferable to seeing a sight, no matter how gruesome, this is just bad writing.** Why notdescribethe scene? In another pivotal scene, a character is plummeting to his death by impalement (on King Jagiello's raised swords outside the Met), and literally reflects on his death plunge in no less thana full page- including a refrain of "Oh my god, Michael thinks.My life!" and "He turns slightly, sees the bystanders: a group of Asian tourists, their cameras dangling over there Burberry coats."Ultimately,Breedfeels like an unnecessarily protracted novella or short story: the entire book is essentially a giant chase scene, born of a very simple premise, without any deeper meaning or horror. Instead of being on par withRosemary's Baby,Breedis more along the lines of the recently released horror filmThe Possession- mildly entertaining, but for all its blustery hype, forgettable.-------* Not to mention, the filial cannibalistic animal that Novak chooses to feature is theGoby fish? For bloodthirsty, animalistic parents? Why not, I don't know, thekomodo dragon?** Not to mention, in the grand scheme of things, this isn't eventhatgruesome a sight, compared to, say,The Human Centipedeor any of theSaworHostelfilms. Not saying those are great films, but as far as the gross-o-meter goes,Breedis a lightweight.