I really enjoyed reading this; I clipped through it in about three hours, because the way it was written was so easy to read. It was almost effortless, and the short chapters really added to the frantic pacing and made it a wild ride.I didn't personally find it very scary, despite a lot of reviews saying it was terrifying; it was definitely disturbing, and there were parts that were pretty messed up, but it's not exactly a horror novel. It's actually a pretty cool take on the idea of a zombie apocalypse, written from the perspective of somebody who would be the "zombie" in this scenario, and that's pretty cool. For obvious reasons, that's not an angle you see often, but obviously this isn't a straightforward zombie story, either. The world has been split into two factions due to an unknown cause -- on one side there are the Unchanged, or those who have been unaffected by whatever it was, and on the other side are the Haters, who have been infected with something known as the Hate which makes them incredibly violent and hell-bent on killing any Unchanged they come across. Aside from this reaction, most of them are still normal human beings at the cognitive level, and so that creates a pretty interesting perspective when it comes to why they do what they do, what they think about it, how each of them react and adapt, etc.I'll disclaim that I haven't read the first book in the series yet, but it didn't matter at all. The worldbuilding in this book was really good; it was solid and explained everything well, and even the occasional moment of inevitable exposition was fascinating rather than boring. It could easily be read without having read the first book in the series, though of course I'm interested to read the whole series now. My only criticism (and I add it here, in case it's something that can be rectified by reading the first book) is that I did find it a little difficult to get on Danny's side, because while I could understand his reasoning I still didn't really think it justified going Rambo on everyone's asses. A lot of the Unchanged portrayed in this book are very pathetic, sympathetic characters; it's difficult to believe that they're as evil or as much of a threat as Danny claims they are, and I can't help but feel sorry for everyone he's killing. It doesn't mean that I don't like Danny's character at all, but it does mean there was a disconnect there where I couldn't really vibe with him as much as I like to vibe with main characters. I did, however, find him a very interesting character -- he's not afraid to criticise himself, which is always fun to read, and he's very admirable in his determination. I also liked the whole thing he went through with Sahota and his operation; it was cool to see a character go back and forth like that, and have actual human reactions to doubt and outside arguments.Speaking of that time period, Idohave to roast the book a little here. I did notice that there were several areas where dialogue relied a little on clichés, but it really wasn't so bad. However, there was one moment that did make me roll my eyes a little, out of amusement more than anything else. It goes as follows:"You can't fight fire with fire, you know what I'm saying?"Then, in thevery nextpiece of dialogue from that same character:"[...] We're trying to end the cycle.I think of us like a firebreak, you know what I mean?When they're trying to stop a forest fire from spreading, they sometimes burn a strip of land further ahead. Then, when the fire reaches it, there's nothing left to burn and the fire dies out. We're like that."As you can probably guess, using a firebreak against a forest fire is, quite literally, no ifs or buts, fighting fire with fire. It gave me a laugh, but more seriously itdidmake me wonder just how much thought was going into these clichés and turns of phrase; if they're there because that's really the best way to describe what's going on, or if it was moments of lazy writing or simply writing what looks good for aesthetic value.Overall, though? This was a good read. I have real respect for how it ended, too -- it's not often that an author has the nerve to commit to an ending like that, and while I keep in mind this is part of a trilogy, as a stand-alone novel it works and even as part of a series, it's a brave thing to do. It wasn't the happiest of endings but itwasthe right ending for the book, and that's always very satisfying to see.