Holy McFuck! I can’t believe it’s over! *wail*“I love you, beyond death.”I’m devastated that there will be no more Dex and Perry, but Karina Halle has given us a wonderful finish toExperiment in Terror. And though there are some big surprises thrown in there, and not everybody makes it out alive, it was a great send off for two of my all-time favourite characters.She was in my arms and she was safe and I was safe and the rest of the world could go to hell for all I cared.I felt that this book had a darker, more subdued feeling to it than others in the series. The story itself is very fast moving and I felt like it didn’t have the build up that other books in the series have had, although with this being the last book of the series, it’s more of a wind down/finishing up, so maybe that’s fitting. That’s not to say that that stuff doesn’t happen, because there’s a lot that happens in this book! It's actiony and emotional, and it scared the bejeesus out of me and had me brimming with excitement at all that goes down.It picks up straight after the ending ofAshes to Ashes, with Dex and Perry no longer having to deal with the pressures of creating Experiment in Terror, but facing their very own demons (literally). I don’t want to be all spoilery, but I will say that both Dex and Perry’s pasts play a big part in this story, so PLEASE be sure that you have read all of the previous books and novellas in this series before even attempting to start this book. Karina has tied everything together so brilliantly, you would miss so much if you didn’t have the complete picture going in, because this book is full of surprises, and some huge shocks that had me screaming at my kindle. And not everybody will survive the big finale (*sniff*).The beginning of the end? What the hell was wrong with me? When did I turn into such a fatalistic douche?I could go on and on about my love for Dex, but if you’re reading this review, chances are you’re already a fan of the series, so you’re just as hopeless over him as I am. As a romantic leading man, he really steps it up in this one with lots of touchy-feely and declarations of love. He goes through a lot in this book, and it’s all incredibly intense - I ached for him. His moments of vulnerability were heartbreaking. But he is still the same old sarcastic, smutty and crude bastard that we all love madly.“What were you doing in there?” she asked, unwilling to let it go.... “Jacking off, naturally.” She narrowed her eyes but seemed to be happy with that answer. Good to know. She was going to make a fabulous wife.And let us not forget Perry! She is a fantastic heroine and I love her to bits! She’s not a superhero out saving the world, she’s a normal girl with normal reactions, the type of girl we can all probably relate to. Yet there is something so very special about her. She’s funny, kind and incredibly brave, and she has a huge heart and loves fully. She’s the kind of girl you’d want to be best friends with. And she and Dex together are absolute gold!It thrills me to say that they are still all loved-up and blissful together, and things between them are incredibly swoony and full of hotness.“Perry, I love you,” he said, voice gruff and full of conviction. “I love you absolutely, resolutely. There is no question, no doubt. This love just is. It exists and because it exists, I exist …“You, only you, just you as you are, are my reason for being.”I am so thankful that Karina didn’t go down the too-often-used route of creating drama for them just for the sake of added conflict or angst. It wasn’t needed, and it would have been so wrong for Dex and Perry after everything they’ve been through. While the UST in the earlier books of the series is absolutely phenomenal, and is part of what makes this series so outstanding, now that they are together, the romance is magic, and I’m so glad she didn’t mess with that.“I just need to look at you.”“Then keep looking, kiddo,” he said. My heart may have melted like a pat of butter on hot bread. “Because I’m looking at you. I don’t think I could ever stop.”Karina Halle has given us something incredibly special withExperiment in Terror. Not only has my vocabulary been expanded with some stellar Dex-isms, but I have adored each and every book in this series and Dex and Perry remain one of my all-time favourite book couples. Their journey has been incredible, and I have felt so much while reading their story – I’ve laughed, cried, squeed and swooned, and I’ve sobbed my heart out – more than once. I’ve also been terrified beyond belief, and I’ve loved every single minute of it.I’m so sad there will be no more, but I am really happy with where the story ended up – and yes, there’s an epilogue, and it left me grinning like a fool! I look forward to many rereads of these books in the future.I loved this book – 4 stars.But for the series as a whole – 5+++ stars all the way!An Advanced Reader Copy was kindly provided by the author in exchange for an honest review