Hooray for the second installment of Fazbear Frights! I don't know quite what it is about these short story compilations but I immensely enjoy reading them and fly through the whole novel in record speed. They may have cliches and cringey moments but regardless of that, diving deeper into the FNaF lore is always something that leaves readers like myself wanting more. Scary situations are hidden in middle grade-like themes but that doesn't mean these stories can't still get dark! So let's discuss...Fetch:4 stars"If the dog was human, forensics would point to Greg in a nanosecond. But the corpse was a dog. He didn't figure there'd be much of an investigation when the dog was found. It looked like the nasty little thing had been mauled by a coyote.But it hadn't."Greg and his friends decide to break into the town's old pizzeria and see what secrets hide inside for some excitement, but the last thing they expect to find is Fetch. A mechanical dog that syncs to your smartphone, but the strange thing is, in the year when the dog seemed to be built smartphones didn't even exist yet. Suddenly spooked, Greg and his friends run far away from the pizzeria and do not plan to go back. All is well until Greg gets a mysterious text message, somehow Fetch has connected to Greg's phone and anything Greg wants or wishes for, Fetch will make it come true. He'll bring Greg his favorite snacks and get him his dream lab partner, but all is not as it seems as Fetch's requests start to take a more sinister turn.This is exactly the kind of story I expect from the FNaF universe and I love it! Aside from some silly moments that I can definitely overlook, Fetch is a creepy take on modern technology. The ending of this story seemed abrupt and while I wish we could have had some follow up on Greg's story, the thought of this animal dragging a girl's lifeless body into a young boy's house and leaving it for him as a prize is bone chilling and was a perfect climax to this story!Lonely Freddy:2 stars"A panicky feeling began to rise in his chest.I just need to get outside,he thoughtI need some air.But breathing wasn't his problem. Moving was.He tried to extend his leg to stand, but nothing happened. He wanted to push his palm to the floor to brace himself, but he couldn't."Alec has always resented his little sister, Hazel, for being the perfect daughter while he is stuck as the troublemaker son. When he overhears his parents talking about testing out another new parenting method to "fix" him, Alec decides to give them exactly what they asked for and become the perfect son they always wanted. After a few strangely normal and nice conversations with Hazel, Alec comes up with a plan that his sister surprisingly goes along with. On the days up until Hazel's precious birthday party that their parents had spent an enormous amount of time and money on, Alec and Hazel decide to switch roles. Hazel will be the problematic, back-talking, and rude child while Alec will be polite, calm and helpful, all to throw off their parents; because Hazel is sick of living up to being perfect and Alec doesn't always want to be a disappointment. What could go wrong?Blahhhh.So far this was both the least creepy and most boring story of the Fazbear Frights collection. The lead up to the twist was far too long and the ending left me kind of confused if I'm honest. After finding the "Lonely Freddy" animatronics at Hazel's birthday party, Alec learns that parents can rent them for their children so they don't have to play alone. Alec follows one of the robots into a staff room of the pizzeria and finds himself faced with a Lonely Freddy and suddenly unable to move, somehow the robot switches minds (I think?) with Alec and steals his body. As the robot goes back to Alec's parents in his own skin, Alec is left in a locked box with other Lonely Freddy toys that hold the minds of other lost children. This one was just a little too weird for me and I felt the story could have gone in so many other directions, but I'm still giving it two stars because despite not really enjoying it I love this series as a whole and it was at least a quick read.Out of Stock:4 stars""Um, is it just me or do the teeth look wrong?" Isaac pointed at the straight, slightly yellow human-looking teeth that were visible through Plushtrap's partly open mouth."No doubt about it. They look...real.""They look"- he swallowed - "human.""Oscar along with his friends Raj and Isaac have been waiting what seems like forever for the new Plushtrap Chaser toy to be released and the day has finally come. The boys decide to meet at the toy store after school, but upon arrival their hearts drop as all the Plushtraps have been sold out at every store. Searching high and low, Oscar and his friends find the last store with the toy in stock and join the large line of people. Getting closer and closer to the register the group of friends overhear a heated exchange between employees about a returned Plushtrap that can't be resold. When the last toy from the store gets bought and the employees tell everyone in line to go home, Oscar makes a quick decision. Darting behind the counter he grabs the returned toy and runs out of the store. Somehow he gets away from mall security and finally has the toy he's been waiting for in his room. Oscar, Raj and Isaac open the toy and are disheartened when it doesn't work, but upon closer look, they realize the Plushtrap Chaser is more sinister than advertised.Oh my gosh, this is one of those stories that takes you a moment to fathom the horror, but once you do it's unshakeable. Human eyes and teeth have been ripped out and implanted into a children's toy, I mean how messed up is that? The toy inevitably comes to life and tries to kill andeatthese kids and it chases them through a blackout. There were some moments in this story that literally had my palms sweating, like when the toy shut down in the middle of a doorway and Oscar, Isaac and Raj had to sneak past it before it woke up. Although, something that struck me as odd with this story is that it happens to be the first happy ending of the Fazbear Frights series and I must admit (creepily enough) that I was mildly disappointed about this! But readers got a bit more insight to the fate of the Plushtrap Chaser in the short chapter at the end of this book.Just like in the first book, there were a few pages after the three initial stories and while readers still seem to be in the dark to the underlying bigger picture, the next novels will undoubtedly unfold the deeper and darker mystery and I can't wait to put all the puzzle pieces together! Only a few more months until1:35AM!