4.5 out of 5 stars.This is easily the most disturbing book so far.It genuinely feels like the team behind these novels sat in a room and said "what things can we do to REALLY traumatise our readers" then the quietest person in the room raised their hands and suggested these stories.And besides the last story before the epilogue (which I'll get to), these stories were about nice kids.Story 1, Friendly Face, follows a nerdy little boy named Edward and his best friend who have no one else in the world but each other until they find a little black kitten. Sadly, tragedy strikes and Edward loses both his friend and the cat. It's not explicitly said in the story, but it is implied that Edward has some form of autism, so he really struggles to comprehend his loss and so takes to heart an adver that suddenly airs on his TV for a new Fazbear Entertainment product called a Friendly Face. I won't go into too many spoilers because the impact of what happens in this story had me sat in my car for a good while just staring at my steering wheel as the audiobook played. This isn't a story about morals, this is a bad thing happening to a good kid.The same can be said for the second story whose name escapes me. A boy named Mott is a really good kid; he helps his mother with his little brother a lot while their father is out of town, and is generally a nice kid. He's an excellent older brother, easily one of the best to exist in the series so far. But one day his little brother wins a new genetically engineered pet called a Sea Bonnie - sea monkeys that are designed to look like Bonnie the Rabbit. His brother loves them, but Mott gets a bad vibe from them... And once again I was sat in awed silence as that story came to it's conclusion. This one I'd label for body horror but I won't spoil why. Trigger warnings are important, but if you've made it 10 books into this series then you'll understand why I left it implied and not in spoiler territory.The final story involves two bitchy high school girls who are excellent friends with each other, but are absolutely horrid to two junior high girls who suddenly start throwing out the status quo. I won't say these two deserved what they got, because the full extent was beyond too much, a scare would have been enough punishment. All I'll say is, this story involves a spring-lock suit with a compartment that holds people....The epilogue was just a thousand lore drops in one and really connected all the other stories so far in a way that just felt extremely satisfying and leaves some major implications for where the series as a whole could be heading next.This was the best one so far.