Ok, I’m going to get a huge ‘negative’ right out of the way to focus on everything positive. I – Steve – am not a fan of mermaids. At all. I get a lot of folks are intrigued by mermaids and how these sirens sign so sweetly causing men to be transfixed before being lured to their deaths. Just not for me.BUT. And that’s a capitalized BUT (you make the big butt joke here! not me!) I also know that I – Steve – am a HUGE fan of horror masquerading as magical, fantastical fable. And having seen a few reviews of this one and re-reading the synopsis (and knowing it was on Tenebrous Press) I knew I had to give it a try. Tim’s a fantastic author/writer and I was looking for a change of scenery considering a huge schwack of my recent reads have been haunted house or set in the woods.What I liked: Set on a coastal village where fishing is main source of food, we follow a young boy, the father of the town’s preacher, as he navigates life. The family is struggling. His mother has disappeared, his father turned angry and his brother has suffered a head injury of some sort, leaving him with challenges. His older sister is growing bitter and food has grown scarce. His true love has been chosen to marry another and he wonders just how he’ll regain her hand.This is all thrown for a loop when, one day, a mermaid appears. At first it is seen as a positive sign, a turning for the village, but after they catch her, things turn sour very quickly. It’s here that McGregor takes us on a dark and wondrous journey. We see our main character struggle with doing what is right versus what the village wants, and we see how this decision impacts every single inhabitant. The story telling is told with a deft and seasoned hand. It reminded me of how much I loved the Henson The Storyteller series from years ago. I could almost imagine John Hurt narrating this within my mind.The final third of this novella is ruthless and brutal. Things go from bad to worse as the mermaid unleashes her unholy terror on the village and her powers are revealed fully. Throughout we see a battle of wills, of our boy struggling still to comprehend what is happening and what role he plays.I found the ending to be fitting, expected and horrendously sad. It’d be great to see a follow up some time in the future, to learn what has become of the village and what is discovered should others arrive. McGregor made sure to drive home the underlying story of family lost but returned and how each villager had a singular role for the over-reaching story.What I didn’t like: It’s actually SUPER minor in the grand scheme of things, but our main character is bitten at one point and his hand begins to change. I personally wanted to know more about it. About the inner workings, the why of what was happening and what would occur if left to continue. It seems odd, but that aspect had me riveted and ultimately just didn’t feel resolved.Why you should buy this: So, what did this non-mermaid fan think? This was friggin’ fantastic. Like seriously amazing from start to finish. This bridged the divide between fantasy and horror and was infused with a sense of Nordic folklore that made each moment feel cold and as though the sun would never shine again. McGregor owned every single word on each and every page and absolutely delivered an outstanding novella. One I should’ve read by now.Phenomenal.