My god, I so loved this book! I think I will write a more detailed review later, but I first want the greatness to sink in...Edit; so here is my long review and I even wrote a longer one on my blog (https://proteandepravity.blogspot.com...), but that one is slightly spoilered, so better leave it there!Nat Cassidy'sMary: An Awakening of Terrorfocuses on a woman who hears voices and hallucinates returning to her home town Arroyo, Arizona, where these symptoms worsen; here she also discovers many things about herself, some of them unpleasant, she either didn't know or suppressed the memory of. In Arroyo, not only does she tackle her aunt who does nothing but tantalize her instead of helping but also a desert town full of religious freaks and a mysterious history involving a serial killer. All this background will mix and build up into a progressively intense and hellish fever dream, resulting in a glorious climax in which Mary gains very unexpected allies and starts drawing strength and confidence in herself!Maryand I, that was love from the very first lines. All the while I was reading this book, I was smitten and couldn't stop thinking about it - I stayed in the subway for a little longer and missed my station in order to read just one more chapter, I was anxious to get home from work so I could continue reading and stayed up late reading myself to sleep. I always wonder and ponder about books which can do that to me and ask "why?", why is it that this book could (in this case, literally) hook its claws on me?Well, for once, I realized that although I don't yet face the same crises Mary has to weather in her life, I am surrounded by many Mary's - women who are forgotten, overlooked, ignored, belittled as they get older. There are some doctor scenes in this book in which Mary’s problems get repeatedly dismissed as menopause and these scenes are especially significant, many women of any age will recognize this kind of dismissal of symptoms as either period or eating problems. It is very commendable that Cassidy highlights this bias to show that what’s going on here is that Mary, as an aging woman who wants nothing more than to be noticed, to be taken seriously, is not being given any worth.There is one reference inMarywhich is hard to miss; Stephen King's debut novelCarrie(1974), in which an oppressed and bullied young girl gains unexpected powers once her menstruation kicks in. In his foreword toMary, Nat Cassidy credits and makes a point in noting the strong mark King's titular figure left on him - up to the point where he, as a young boy, elevated her to a kind of matron saint due to her suffering, after seeing and being left shocked and awed by the sight of a bloodied, iconic Sissy Spacek playing Carrie White in the 1976 movie. In his appropriately entitled afterword "What's This Asshole Doing Writing a Book About Menopause?", he adds that he aimed at closing a certain circle -Carriebeing on the opening side of reproductive/cycle horror, whileMaryrepresenting the middle age/closure. He also emphasizes the responsibility of men in fighting patriarchy.Bottom line is, Cassidy's debut horror novel absolutely struck a chord with me and is definitely worth your time; lots of patriarchal anxiety smashed, tons of gore and blood, epic confrontations and ants! My god, ants everywhere, and also claws...