In late 1928, the author Agatha Christie made her first journey on the elegant, luxurious train, the“Orient Express”. The experience was to stay fixed in her mind. A few months later, in February 1929, the same locomotive—the Orient Express—was stranded in a blizzard near Cherkeskoy, Turkey, for six days.A third experience with the Orient Express, two years later in December 1931, was to prove so memorable that it inspired one of her most popular crime novels,Murder on the Orient Express. Agatha Christie was once more aboard the Orient Express train, this time returning from her husband’s archaeological dig at Nineveh. However, flooding from severe rainfall had washed sections of the track away, and the train was at a standstill for twenty-four hours. Not only did this experience find its way into her fiction, but according to her biography, several passengers on the train inspired both the plot and the characters inMurder on the Orient Express. An American, Mrs. Hilton, for instance, lay behind her creation of the appalling (but very entertaining)“Mrs. Hubbard”.One other true-life incident was to prove crucial to the plot of this novel, and this wasthe kidnapping and murder of Charles Lindbergh’s son in 1932, two years earlier. The kidnapping of“Daisy Armstrong”is lifted almost entirely from the Lindbergh case. A very young child, the first to be born to a wealthy high-status family, was kidnapped for a huge ransom, directly from her crib. The mother was already pregnant with another child. The ransom was paid, but the child was found dead soon afterwards. All these facts are included. Even the destiny of one of the suspects is identical. A maid, who was rather chatty, was suspected of involvement in the Lindbergh crime. Although she was innocent, she killed herself after being interrogated by the police.Incorporating so many elements of a recent high profile case into her novel, adds a feeling of authenticity. Even now the case remains famous, and an emotive one in the public’s consciousness. SinceMurder on the Orient Expressis, in some ways, extremely fanciful, this direct mirroring of real life helps its believability.The novel was first published in 1934, and originally titled“Murder in the Calais Coach”in the USA, before being published under its more familiar title ofMurder on the Orient Expressin the UK, later the same year. Once again, we are to enjoy the company of the Belgian detective, Hercule Poirot. This is his tenth appearance in the oeuvre. This time, Poirot is there at the start, en route from an earlier case, and travelling on the Taurus Express from Aleppo in Syria to Stamboul (now Istanbul). As always, he notices those around him, and we too enjoy anticipating the return of these two, a Colonel Arbuthnot, and an edgy young woman, Mary Debenham. They of course, dismiss him without further thought:“A ridiculous-looking little man. The sort of little man one could never take seriously … The little man removed his hat. What an egg-shaped head he had.”By the end of the day, the train has been delayed, and Poirot is staying overnight at the Tokatlian Hotel in Stamboul. But there he receives a telegram prompting him to return to London, because of a development in an ongoing case. Immediately, he asks the concierge to book a first-class compartment on the Simplon-route Orient Express train, which is to depart that night. Oddly the train is fully booked. However, a chance meeting with a friend of his, a fellow Belgian, Monsieur Bouc, enables him to obtain a second-class berth. Monsieur Bouc is a director of the railway, and happens to be travelling on the same train.We meet the passengers on the train as the action unfolds. As well as the aforementioned Mrs Caroline Hubbard, the English governess Mary Debenham, and the upright military man, Colonel Arbuthnot, we meet several more passengers who are to accompany us on our journey through this book. The French conductor of the Wagon-lit: Pierre Michel, is to take care of the passengers. An unpleasant elderly American businessman: Samuel Ratchett, is in the centre of the train, and the centre of the plot. Travelling with him are his American secretary: Hector McQueen, and his valet: Edward Henry Masterman. Other passengers are Hildegarde Schmidt: a German Lady’s maid to the haughty Russian Princess Dragomiroff, who is also travelling. There is Antonio Foscarelli: an Italian Ford car salesman, Greta Ohlsson: a missionary teacher who prompts the hilarious aside from the twittery Mrs Hubbard“Poor creature - she’s a Swede!”, and the Count and Countess Adrenyi. Finally, there is Cyrus Bethman Hardmann: a travelling salesman for typewriter ribbonswho reveals his true identity during Poirot’s interview, to be an American private detective. There are 13 passengers in all, plus a mysterious“A.M. Harris”who has not arrived, and Poirot and his friend. Such an odd assortment of passengers causes Poirot to ponder and reflect:“All around us are people, of all classes, of all nationalities, of all ages. For three days these people, these strangers to one another, are brought together. They sleep and eat under one roof, they cannot get away from each other. At the end of three days they part, they go their several ways, never, perhaps, to see each other again.”The businessman, Mr Ratchett, approaches Poirot, attempting to hire him as a protector, because he has received threatening letters and believes his life is in danger:“He was a man of between sixty and seventy. From a little distance he had the bland aspect of a philanthropist. His slightly bald head, his domed forehead, the smiling mouth that displayed a very white set of false teeth, all seemed to speak of a benevolent personality. Only the eyes belied this assumption. They were small, deep set and crafty. Not only that. As the man, making some remark to his young companion, glanced across the room, his gaze stopped on Poirot for a moment, and just for that second there was a strange malevolence, and unnatural tensity in the glance.”Poirot is not tempted. Despite the huge amount of money the man offers, Poirot does not take to the man at all:“What’s wrong with my proposition?”Poirot rose. “If you will forgive me for being personal—I do not like your face M. Ratchett.”And dramatically describes Ratchett to his friend:“The body—the cage—is everything of the most respectable—but through the bars, the wild animal looks out.”Agatha Christie continues to stack up the elements which make a classic golden age mystery. On the second night of the journey, in Belgrade, two extra coaches are added to the train. Monsieur Bouc gives up his first-class compartment to Poirot, and moves to a different coach himself. Everything is arranged, as the compartment now belonging to Poirot adjoins one in which a murder victim is travelling. Yes, there must be a murder, in this closed train. What’s more, the train is halted by a snowdrift near Vincovci, on the very evening of the murder. Nobody can now get in, and nobody can get out either. As Poirot so succinctly puts it at the end of chapter 5:“The murderer is with us—on the train now …”By this time we are about a quarter of the way through the novel.Murder on the Orient Expressis a highly structured—perhaps even overstructured—piece of writing. There are 3 parts:“The Facts”, “The Evidence”,and“Hercule Poirot Sits Back and Thinks”. Each part contains between 8 and 15 chapters. The middle section devotes one chapter to each of the passengers. We know of Poirot’s predilection for“order and method”, and in several novels we are presented with a list of events, suspects’ movements, or questions arising, all ostensibly through the diminutive detective’s making of lists, and invited to reason it out for ourselves. This time the development is even tighter, and the writing just a little too dry because of it.However, the case is intriguing and puzzling in the extreme. I have read this novel several times over the years, and seen a few dramatisations too, so the audacious explanation is well known to me, and no longer a surprise. This is a little sad, as I cannot now remember my feelings on a first reading, but am sure I must have been amazed.Poirot has no access to the outside world, and is directed by his friend Monsieur Bouc to investigate the case in the absence of the official police. When they arrive, he will hand over whatever he has discovered. This suits Poirot admirably. He is always scornful of those who examine clues minutely, since he believes in the supreme power of the“little grey cells”:“‘… we have none of the facilities afforded to the police. We cannot investigate the bona fides of any of these people. We have to rely solely on deduction. That, to me, makes the matter very much more interesting. There is no routine work. It is a matter of the intellect.’”It is a nice slant on the approach of consulting detective Sherlock Holmes, in the novels by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, which Agatha Christie clearly emulated. Sadly Captain Arthur Hastings, who acted the same role as Doctor Watson, does not appear inMurder on the Orient Express. However, his part is well played by Monsieur Bouc, and a later addition, Doctor Constantine, who conducted a formal examination of the body.Hence the final third of the book. Poirot puts together all the clues, and there are many! In splendid classic mystery fashion, the glass of the victim’s watch has smashed, thereby stopping the watch at the exact time of the murder. In the compartment are found various items, including a pipe cleaner, a button from a uniform, a spent match, a burnt fragment of a letter, a dainty handkerchief, and so on:“And most conveniently she leaves her handkerchief behind!” said Poirot. “Exactly as it happens in the books and on the films—and to make things even easier for us it is marked with an initial.”“Does a man who commits suicide stab himself in ten—twelve—fifteen places?” he asked. Poirot’s eyes opened. “That is great ferocity,” he said. “It is a woman,” said the chef de train, speaking for the first time. “Depend upon it, it was a woman. Only a woman would stab like that.”As each clue is found, Poirot seems to become more gleeful, yet the director of the railway, the doctor—and it has to be said, the reader—become increasingly confused. As Monsieur Bouc comments:“‘Lies—and again lies—it amazes me the amount of lies we had told to us this morning.’‘There are still more to discover,’ said Poirot cheerfully.’”“If you confront anyone who has lied with the truth, they usually admit it— often out of sheer surprise. It is only necessary to guess right to produce your effect.”Various people are reported as having moved through the train on the evening of the murder. One wore a scarlet kimono, festooned with dragons, another was a“small dark man with a womanish voice—and eventually the murder weapon itself was found—amid great hysteria. Can Poirot put all these disparate elements together, sort out fact from fiction, and work out who committed the heinous crime? Of course he can! Naturellement! Hercule Poirot is a private detective par excellence:“‘I am not a Yugo-Slavian detective, Madame. I am an international detective.’”‘You belong to the League of Nations?’‘I belong to the world, Madame,’ said Poirot dramatically. He went on ‘I work mainly in London.’”There are quite a few little humorous additions such as this, from Agatha Christie. Here is another such, when Poirot fully expects Hector MacQueen to know of his famous detecting skills, and recognise his name, but is crestfallen at MacQueen’s reply:“Why, it does sound kind of familiar—only I always thought it was a woman’s dressmaker.”Or this:“‘Miss Debenham is a pukka sahib.’”Dr. Constantine queried …“‘It means,’ said Poirot, ‘that Miss Debenham’s father and brothers were at the same sort of school as Colonel Arbuthnot.’”For those who know the story, and perhaps also those who are a dab hand at solving these sorts of complex cases, there are indicators in the early part of the text, that Poirot is well on the way to solving the case, and merely needs a little confirmation. Here is one, as stated by Colonel Arbuthnot, half way through the novel:“‘Trial by jury is a sound system.’Poirot looked at him thoughtfully for a minute or two.‘Yes,’ he said, ‘I am sure that would be your view.’“.“One cannot complain of having no clues in this case. There are clues here in abundance”But for Poirot, who has formulated a theory quite a few chapters ago, they confirm his suspicions:“This compartment is full of clues, but can I be sure that those clues are really what they seem to be?”At the end, Poirot,“neat, spruce and dandified as ever …”pompously persuses the possible and the impossible, and pronounces:“The impossible cannot have happened, therefore the impossible must be possible in spite of appearances.”The police are presented with two possible alternative solutions to the savage murder. And we know precisely which one they will pick.This is a novel with an unforgettable ending. Once again Agatha Christie has appeared to write a solid formulaic golden age murder mystery—and then she takes the reader’s breath away by breaking all the rules. If it were not for the tightness of the form of the novel, which restricts more interesting writing, this would be one of her best novels, and a five star read. But most of us, much as we like to try to guess “whodunnit”, need a little more than a set of boxes to tick.Nevertheless, Hercule Poirot has, by this tenth novel a substantial and loyal following, who indulge peccadilloes such as his superlative moustaches, with humour and great affection:“He went out of the compartment and returned a few moments later with a small spirit stove and a pair of curling tongs. ‘I use them for the moustaches,’ he said, referring to the latter.”“Hercule Poirot addressed himself to the task of keeping his moustaches out of the soup.”On then, to the next adventure of Monsieur Hercule Poirot!