TL;DR Lazy shock horror, written by someone who has a fixation on portraying women as being disgusting horrific beasts, and no interest in how his work is using antisemitic tropes or even bothering to weave a narrative out of the gruesome imagery.I did not like this book. I wanted to, I could see that there was a point haunting the edges of the book. But I just, I just couldn't.The narrator hired for the novel was honestly the highlight. Likewise the children in the book are written pretty accurately to their ages. I think those two things are about all the positive things I can say about it though.The scene that started on page 36 earned its infamy, and was written in such way that it nearly made me actually throw up. Not the general "oh this is sick writing" No as in I was trapped at work, unable to turn the book off to give myself a break, listening to that part of the book very nearly Actually Throwing Up onto the machine I was stationed at. Getting to the child murder was honestly a god damn relief.The thing about Playground though that I appreciate about it is the way it doesn't shy away from abuse. That's what this book is about. Abuse. Objectively that is what this is about.The kids are given equal narrative weight, they're not simply tools of the narrative they are agents within themselves. The adults however, more or less refuse to see that. They, the children, aren't people to them. To the Matthew family they're tools to get fame and fortune via sports. Donnie's mother didn't seem to see him as anything but a burden and put him through anything she could think of because she was stuck with him, but likewise didn't want to give him up for some reason. A reason we never find out due to her getting turned into red paste more or less the second she shows up (a move I fucking wholeheartedly supported). The Grimley's seemed to be alright, if not helicopter parents. Out of the three, they were the only ones who dare I say it: loved their children.But like again. Abuse is the central theme of the book. The antagonist is a rapist who abused her right hand man since he was a child. She murdered a maid because she thought that they were sleeping together when he was a teenager. After she kept killing or firing the staff and wouldn't hire new ones to replace them, he took their spot, which included her raping him repeatedly. But all of it is... disconnected. The abuse is happening but that's really it. The Plot and Narrative are in another room from the Abuse and then the Gore has one all to itself as well. The author's writing of her is generally misogynistic as well, like not even knowing how a climax happens on a "female" body. In the scene where she rapes Rock, her climax is written as if she was a man climaxing but the cum comes out of her vagina insteadThe gore is alright, its written in a way that can be a little hammy sometimes but like, I'm not looking for high minded lit with vocab I have to google the meaning of. Especially not in splatterpunk. But even with it being the focus of the genre (it IS splatterpunk) it likewise feels like no care is being taken for it either. "Its SAW but with kids" SAW had interested set design for its horror, what does Playground have? Empty voids. Beauregard couldn't be bothered to even map out what this place would look like. Something only emphasized by the illustrations. "Its Squid Game but with kids" Squid Game had a point. There was something behind it, a reason for the people taking partanda reason for the rich woman to even be doing this. Which in Playground there really is no point, the whole thing about "I can't have children and now its everyone's problem" is just as tacked on as it is misogynistic. Boiling down her entire life and everything within, for her to feel like "something is missing" and what is it? Oh children of course. Because what woman doesn't want a child?Overall I think my biggest concern with the book is, maybe unintended antisemitism? I don't want to think that Beauregard meant to do it but like... come on man this book came out in the wake of "The Wealthy Elite are all pedophile rapists who are after YOUR CHILDREN" and that is Literally!!! Literally the thing that gets the book started! The antagonist is a pedophile rapist, who takes interest in one of the girls and starts hoping for her to survive so that she can "take her under her wing" and she's one of the richest women in the country. There was a Whole Thing about how this all couldn't have happened if she didn't work with an actual god damned Nazi. You don't Name Drop camps that this fictional nazi worked at/helped design and then not expect me to be questioning the presence of antisemitism and its, extremely disappointing that I've not seen that brought up at all whenever I did see people talking about this book. Like fucks sake the book went into great detail about how he was spared via Paperclip.She dies a horrible death but I don't feel like that undoes anything that she did or what the book's entire basis of existing is formed upon. I feel like having like, I dunno, a single Jewish splatterpunk sensitivity reader would of done Beauregard a great deal of help if this really and truly was unintended.