I remind any readers of my reviews that I write the reviews on an irregular basis, since I read a story in a short story collection infrequently; and the stories are also read to and fro, and not necessarily in order.NOVEMBER 12:"Another Flesh":Like many of the great writers, Pugmire has a core of recurring themes; themes that he continuiously try to refine and explore new aspects of. This one deals with a triad of those: Family estrangement, the outsider, and the return of the dead.As Pugmire says in the Afterword, it's one of his older tales. And it shows--not that it's a bad tale, but although revised for this edition it's just not among his greatest stories. This story was written before Pugmire found that balance of "his own" ideas and the "Cthulhu Mythos" vein that he is now so famous for. But even here you see his talent for wonderful, strange images and way with words depicting those images. Also, it's a tale set in Sesqua Valley--which in itself makes for wonderful reading;-)NOVEMBER 13:"Born in Strange Shadow":The relationship between a mother and a son can be a strange, chilling thing--as this brief story poignantly illustrates."The Zanies of Sorrow":Elsewhere in this collection Pugmire declares that "We'd all like to be Ligotti, but some of us are doomed to be Derleth, alas." Well--this is Pugmire's Ligottian piece, if that is a combination that makes sense at all! Wow! One that denies Pugmire's statement.It's not that I think Pugmireoughtto write like Ligotti--not at all!--but there's a horrible scene near the end that had me thinking "This is pure Ligotti" in imagery, with those dreadful jesters spasmically dancing in the moonlight. And to quite some extent, the philosophical underpinning also resembles Ligotti's.A trademark of Pugmire's style is his keen sense of sorrow and melancholy... This story's ending touches that element superbly; and while I did suspect--as the author made sure the reader do--an ending somewhat in that direction, the actual revelation was a surprise to me!The highlight so far. And what a highlight. Illustrates what an amazing and unique talent we have walking in our midst today. May even more people recognize it.NOVEMBER 18:"Immortal Remains":A short story with a dream-like texture. Fascinating and low-key it deals with mystical attraction to the ancient, almost matter-of-factly mind-replacement (or something similar), and Nyarlathotep.NOVEMBER 24:"Selene":Another story with a dream-like quality to it. This one deals with nothing less than the creation of a dark Goddess! There are Mythos shades to this story, but first and foremost it's a Sesqua Valley tale, through and through. A wonderful piece. Apparently, Pugmire was thinking of Robert Bloch (with whom he has corresponded with) when he wrote this one.DECEMBER 1:"The Darkest Star":A tale of being haunted by and attracted to the Stars--and Beyond. It is clear that the Whateley family story doesn't end with Lovecraft's "The Dunwich Horror." The whole magic-occult (my words) ceremony at the end was well-crafted, I think; gave me a thrilling chill down the spine:-)DECEMBER 2:"The Heritage of Hunger":Take a large dose of HPL's "The Unnamable", add strong spices of "The Hound" and a few light strokes of "The Call of Cthulhu" for background dept... Oh, and elements of hunger, ghouls, face eaters & Sesqua Valley, of course... Then you have an idea what this story is about, heh.Confused? It actually works amazingly well in this dark tale. Highly recommended.JANUARY 29:"The Imp of Aether":A native of Sesqua Valley returns to that most myserious of places after six months away; he is now strangely changed. Turns out a visit to a hillside tomb where a witch was buried is the cause of it all.Besides the little poking of Mythos elements I also found this story to be quite poetic--sweet, flowery language with a tang to it. Very nice.NOTE:I received a revised reprint of this collection from the author himself. Signed by him, with the words: "To my Friend & Editor, Henrik. W. H. Pugmire, Esq." It's great that this collection is now available again--and not just the extremely expensive out-of-print hardcovers.