A Spooky But Flawed Collection Of Short Stories That Are Horrific.Okay this is a huge improvement from the first and second collection but again it's not great. These writers are just not very talented and thoughtful with their writing and I've come to accept that. The stories were disturbing, gory and reflective but there still felt like there was something missing. The stories are very spooky but they all felt unreleastic, especially Somniphobia. I also think it was very well executed showing how Heartless "friends" can be in survival situations. This collection is a mixed bag but it's definitely the best one if I had to pick between Lallys Game, Happs and Somniphobia.There's a lot I could break down in this sort of mid collection but I'm gonna talk about the negatives before I get to the positives. I did enjoy this though as the horror made me uncomfortable in the way I was suppose to.First I think the writing style. After reading several books in the Tales and Frights book all the writers styles are getting very bad and hallow. I appreciate these books are YA and middle grade but I think even for a younger kid these books have gotta be tedious. The writing is so repetive and hollow. Every short story should be experimental but the writing style is practically the same style every story and it's physically exhausting. Horror is suppose to be show don't tell but the three writers won't to spoon feed the reader and tell us what's happening instead of showing it on the page. The non horror bits are also poorly thought out and boring. Especially the High School bits, these adults cannot write kids and it's really showing every time they tackle a High School setting.Related it's becoming more and more noticeable that nearly every story with a child/teen protagonist has an awkward love triangle, one sided crush or corney writers. These writers need to find some orginal ideas. There's more to teen life then crushes and love triangles. So much potential because the writers can be bothered to steer away from awkward crushes or love triangles. It's getting repetive to the point I'm groaning or rolling my eyes everytime a crush is mentioned. Bullying, Low Self Esteem, Secret Nerds there's so much more the writers could try. It's also really annoying that it's mainly male teen characters having these plotlines. If they want to create interesting teen protagonists they need to stop regurgitating the same plotline over and over again.Finally the ableism. Man there is a lot of ableism in the FNAF books but specifically in Somniphobia Sam is heavily Autistic coded with his strict food preferences an info dumping about dangerous stuff. But all of his "Friends" are absolutely despicably ableist to the point Jules physically assaults Sam and tries to force feed Sam when he doesn't want it. Its quickly brushed over and dismissed as Jules being fed up of Sams fear and that's not okay. This kind of assault regularly happens to Autistic people and it peeved me off how easily it was shrugged off cos Sam's a boy. Sam's fear characteristics and paronia are turned into a horrible caricature and it's not okay at all. Unintentional or not it's still very harmful.Now with the negatives out of the way let's get onto the positives. Ignoring Somniphobia, the other two stories in this collection absolutely nailed their endings and gave me that true horrific feeling I'd been missing from the other two Tales collections. It's nowhere near perfect but it truly was so much easier to get through.First I want to praise the horror and gore. Tales compared to the Fazbear Frights books I read, is much more bolder and braver with its horror. Which is why I'd consider this series more for a YA audience and Frights as a Middle Grade series. Cawthon, Parra and Waggener are not afraid to make the reader grossed or scared and it's especially evident in this collection. The battering our characters receive in this collections make you nauseous and it's ultimately for the better as it shows truly how dangerous and evil the fazbear more evil then they already are. The increased horror also allows for characters like Ballora, Moondrop and Springtrap to be used better then they have been in the games or at least expand on their creepiness. The horror in this collection will not leave you disappointed.Secondly the interconnectivity, this is a great collection that strings together through one fear and the fear is the fear of being trapped. Whether in a dream, in the costume of a killer you hate or a literal small space, it explores the feelings of being trapped and how it can mess with your brain. By exploring one single theory it threads the short stories as different examples of what feeling trapped can feel like which is what makes the fnaf interesting. It can show the same fear but from a different point of view. I just love in genuine when stories have interesting themes woven throughout together.Finally the running psychological and philosophy morals throughout the three stories. The "friends" and Co Workers in these three stories are what makes the collection so interesting. It's common in horror but perfectly explores what humans will do for survival and how they feel about other people's boundaries. The darkside of humanity is truly shown in this collection especially with the poor decisions are side characters decide to make into this one. I don't want to spoil but thanks to the interesting way the side characters are written, the endings of Cleithrophobia and Pressure will leave you with the feelings of pure rage and wondering the philosophy of the side characters and why they treated their "friend" the way they did. Somniphobia too to an extent but the ending of that is just way too bizarre for me.Overall not bad it's an interesting collection with short stories that will be buzzing in your heads for days. You'll always be wondering about why people always pick the worst of friends. Definitely give this one a go but it depends on you own personal preference.Overall Rating: 4 Stars ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️My rating for each individual story goes as followed.Somniphobia: 3.5 Stars (An interesting concept and metaphor for addiction ruined by ableism and a truly unreleastic ending)Pressure: 4 Stars (The Love Triangle annoyed me but it was a disturbing, gorey story with am unexpected ending)Cleithrophobia: 4.25 Stars (Way too short but really disturbing, gross and spooky. Poor Grady, creepy Ballora)Epilogue 3: 4 Stars (Cool villian in the Mimic but it was bit annoying that it was a direct continuation of Epilogue 2 as its unhelpful for readers who might not be reading Tales books back to back)