I had a dream I was awake and I woke up to find myself asleep.-Stan LaurelThis amazing collection of stories provides readers with words and ideas to promote life reflection. I absolutely love Dan Chaon's magical ability :-)One of my favorite books ever! I have readStay Awakenineteen times since it's February 2012 publication. I am excited for any new work by Dan Chaon. I highly recommend Dan Chaon's books, especially Stay Awake and Await Your Reply - if you like stories that keep you thinking and don't give you all the answers, then you will appreciate Dan Chaon's writing :-)Stay Awake provides 12 short stories, rich with meaning & mystery. Particular ideas & objects re-occurring in multiple stories include: Suicide, Open Mouths, Severed Fingers, Brain Damage, Astro Projection, Halo Rings, "etcetera", "very lucky", Conjoined Twins, Babies, Having Children, Babies with two heads, Beef Eaters, Rain, Falling Asleep, Waking Up, Death, Chicago, Cleveland, Characters with "J" Names, Characters with "C" Names, Jan, Joni, Karen, Christopher aka "Critter", Painters, Carpentry, Random Messages, Lullabies, Nurses, Children, Coffins, Zombies, Insects, Animals, Dogs, Monkeys, Deer, Lillies, Post-it Note Messages, Foster Care, Hospitals, Comas, Grocery Stores, Car Accidents, Fall Accidents, Fire Accidents, Prison Stays, Institutionalization, Group Homes, Deafness, Eyes Opening, Eyes Closing, Alternate Realities, Characters not realizing they are dead or in a coma, Time/Sequence Distortion, Figurines, Fuzzie Field Mouse, Hard Truths, Breakups/Divorce/Death of Spouse/Parents, "We", Stories told out of sequence.While the collection can be enjoyed as stand-alone episodes, there is a grander scope of shared trauma, mental illness and secret messages among the stories. Characters cross over from one story to another such as in the case of Joni and Critter.The final story,The Farm, The Gold, The Lily-White Hands, serves as a culminating summarization, interconnecting to previous characters & story elements.The audiobook is narrated by Kirby Heyborne (same narrator as Await Your Reply).Related Works:You Remind Me of Me,Await Your Reply,A Brief History of Time,On the RoadWARNING: TEASERS (including full paragraphs from stories) CONTAINED BEYOND THIS POINTHere are my favorite passages from various stories:The BeesHere is a high, empty wail that severs Gene from his unconsciousness like sharp teeth. It is the worst sound that Gene can imagine, the sound of a young child dying violently - falling from a building, or caught in some machinery that is tearing an arm off, or being mauled by a predatory animal.____It isn't a headache, he says. "It's like bees!" he says. "Buzzing bees!" He rubs his hand against his brow. "Inside my head." He considers for a moment. "You know how the bees bump against the window when they get in the house and want to get out?"____He'd escaped his old self . . . now he had a chance to do things over, to do it better.____"What are you scared of?" Gene asks Frankie, after a moment, "Anything?""You know what the scariest thing is?" Frankie says, and widens his eyes, miming a frightened look. "There's a lady with no head, and she went walking through the woods, looking for it. 'Give . . . me . . . back . . . my . . . head . . . .'""Where on earth did you hear a story like that!" Karen says."Daddy told me," Frankie says. "When we were camping"Gene blushes, even before Karen gives him a sharp look. "Oh, great," she says. "Wonderful."He doesn't meet her eyes. "We were just telling ghost stories," he says, softly. "I thought he would think the story was funny.""My God, Gene," she says. "With him having nightmares like this? What were you thinking?"____All the things that he doesn't quite remember are circling and alighting, vibrating their cellophane wings insistently.____There is an image of Mandy, sitting on the couch as he stormed out, with DJ cradled in her arms, one of DJ's eyes swollen shut and puffy. There is an image of him in the kitchen, throwing glasses and beer bottles onto the floor, listening to them shatter.And whether they are dead or not, he knows that they don't wish him well. They would not want him to be happy - in love with his wife and child. His normal, undeserved life.______"We need to talk about last night," she says. "I need to know what's going on.""Nothing," he says, but the stern way she examines him activates his anxieties all over again. "I couldn't sleep, so I went out to the living room to watch TV. That's all."She stares at him. "Gene," she says after a moment. "People don't usually wake up naked on their living room floor, and not know how they got there. That's just weird, don't you think?" Oh, please, he thinks. He lifts his hands, shrugging - a posture of innocence and exasperation, though his insides are trembling. "I know," he says. "It was weird to me, too. I was having nightmares. I really don't know what happened."Patrick Lane, FlabbergastedI could relate to this story because both the character & I worked in a small grocery store.What could he say? He had known a lot of dead people recently.____And then there were areas that he had started to clean or pack up but then had broken off for one reason or another.For example, in the basement "rec room" area, on the upper shelf of a closet, he'd come across a bunch of games that the family used to play when Brandon and Jodee were kids: Monopoly. Yahtzee. Battleship. Which he'd planned to get rid of.But then he opened the mildewy cardboard box of an ancient Scrabble game and an enormous number of cockroaches came scuttling out of it. Oh, my God! He chucked the game across the room and it broke open and all the little wooden tiles with letters printed on them scattered across the shag carpet._______It had occurred to him that maybe something was going wrong with the world. Like global warming or an economic collapse or a coming plague. He could imagine that his parents had somehow intuited or found out about such an event, something so terrible that they couldn't bear to live through it. But what? He couldn't quite conceptualize such a catastrophe, though often he was aware of its presence, its force, something large and omnipotent hovering over not just himself and his house but also the neighborhood, the state, the country. Possibly the planet?He noticed, for example, that many of the stores were closing and remaining empty - the old Beatrice Academy of Beauty across from the high school had shut down, and through the cracked windows you could see the hair dryers all piled together in a jumble, like dead spacemen._______There were electrical outages in the city and then he couldn't sleep at all. He would sit there alone in the dark, clutching his flashlight. He was certain he could hear sounds in the house. In the ruined bathroom, his parents' bedroom, in the basement, where he imagined the scuttle of cockroaches or Scrabble tiles -And he'd once actually fled out the back door in his underwear with his flashlight and sleeping bag in his arms and tried to sleep on the lawn under the old apple tree. But even that - the beloved apple tree of their childhood, "Jonathan the Apple Tree," their mother had called it - even that behaved strangely. Its leaves would get a white powdery substance on them and then they curled up and fell off, and the apples themselves were tiny and wrinkled and deformed in a way that made them look like little ugly heads, and as he sat in the backyard on the sleeping bag he heard one drop.. . . tunk?A sinister little questioning sound.And then, after a long silence, another one - "tunk?" - and he imagined he saw the whispery movement as the shrunken apple rolled through the unmowed grass.______....the world had begun to seem as if it wanted to communicate a dreadful, dire message, uncomfortable words and letters began to emerge - for example, the long vine from his mom's pathos plant in the kitchen was curling down in a way that appeared to be unreadable cursive writing, possibly Arabic, and the shingles on the neighbor's roof seemed to be arranged so that they formed H's and I's in a pattern: H I H I H I H I H I which freaked him quite badly.____Both he and Zachary Leven had gotten paranoid and begun to imagine that their brains were going to turn off. Like suddenly they would become vegetables. And both he and Zachary Leven were crying and his mom said, I am so ashamed of you, I hope you remember this when I'm dead, after all I've done for you this is how you repay me, I hope you think about this moment when I am gone, and his father had looked pained and said, Oh, Cathy, that kind of talk isn't necessary, and the doctor gazed at them and said: "I am going to prescribe some clonazepam -that should do the trick," and his mother said, with enthusiastic disgust: "They are both of them throwing up and they both have diarrhea!"____More and more, he thought, his days at the grocery store were like being in a zombie movie except that here the undead appeared to be too depressed to be cannibals. You didn't even realize, most of the time, that they were dead, and he had the worrisome thought that he would look up and there would be his mom or Zachary Leven or there would be Patrick Lane, gray-skinned and surprised-looking, standing at the end of an empty checkout aisle, his hands moving slowly as if he were packing an unseen grocery bag with air.It had occurred to him that if the undead don't realize that they are dead, he might easily be one of them himself.____"Halos around objects," he read. "Colors of objects changing while looking at them. Illusion that objects are moving."He lifted his head and stared at the discarded white sock on the floor, which wasn't breathing, he was pretty sure."Aeropsia," he read. "Floaters."____On The Weather Channel it said: "A large swath of dead clouds covered many areas of the Tennessee Valley to the Northeast yesterday."____"A conclusion is simply the place where you got tired of thinking."____He could imagine that there was a way in which all the pieces came together and interlocked, some kind of lines that could be drawn from the funerals of his classmates to the plumbing problems in the house, which also connected the clutter of hair dryers in the abandoned beauty academy with his old grade-school teacher, which was associated with the time he and Zacharay Leven had watched the zombie movie, which was linked to the scattered tiles of the Scrabble game and the graffiti in the grocery-store bathroom and the note that his parents had left him - it was a map, he thought, a net that cast itself outward, ad if he only applied himself he would see how the weather would lift and he would get the house finished and the economy would shift again and he would go back to college and meet some new friends and the wars would come and go and he would move to a new place and maybe get married and he would tease his own children about how they never seemed to grasp cause and effect very well.He sat there, huddled underneath the hum of electrical equipment that made a halo around the sofa bed, but the house crept gently closer. He could sense the house, the way you sense something leaning over you and watching while you're sleeping. He could hear the rattle of the apple tree in the wind, the shifting of the floorboards upstairs, the red flutter of an emergency vehicle on a distant street. Outside the window, some streetlights winked off and on, hesitating.Then, with a sigh, the power shut down again. All across the city the light folded into itself, and the darkness spread out its armsStay Awake(title story)Things seemed almost normal . . .____Zach had often wondered what was going on inside their brains. Could they dream each other's dreams, think each other's thoughts? Could they see what the other one saw, the two pairs of eyes looking at the world both right side up and upside down?____Even when our death is imminent, we carry the image of ourselves moving forward, alive, into the future.____. . . while the moon . . . drifts in the skies . . . stay awake . . . don't close . . . your . . . eyes . . .____Back when he was spending his nights on the Internet, he had come across a long article about astral projection. According to some philosophies, the self existed outside of the physical body. There were many religions that believed the soul could lift away, a noncorporeal version of your mind could rise up from the tether of muscle and skin and bone and blood and float off on its own.Its own journey.____You want a child because it is a piece of yourself that will live on after you are dead. That is one answer.____You want a child because it is a link in the bridge that you are building between the past and the future, a cantilever that holds you, so that you are not alone.Long Delayed, Always Expected"Why am I afraid of dying? Aren't you afraid?"Jeffrey shrugged. "It's just like going to sleep.""Yes, but you never wake up. That's the problem.""How do you know?""How do I know what?""You don't know that you never wake up," Jeffrey said. "Because you're dead."____He was a better lover, as a brain-damaged person....____All the things that people longed for seemed a little stupid, she thought.____You have brain damage. I have no idea what your thought processes are like.____It's so stupid. It's like trying to explain something to a cat."Hmm," Jeffrey said. "Cats don't really understand human language."______She would not step even a tiny bit more into the future that seemed to be settling over her.The story ends with this haunting paragraph:Outside, the sleet had gotten thicker. You could hear it pebbling against the large glass windows, you could see it swirling wildly through the spotlights of street lamps. It was the kind of night when you might expect to see a skeleton flying through the air, its ragged black shroud flapping in the wind.I Wake UpAnd I was surprised to see that his hands and fingers had a lot of dark hair growing on them, despite his baldness.____. . . I realized that my own brain worked differently from the way theirs did.____. . . the pictures my brain would send me often didn't make much sense. I'd conjure up a vivid image of a row of brownstone apartments and a cobblestone street; I'd imagine that I recalled an organ grinder and his monkey on the corner, and people passing by in clothes from a hundred years ago. I'd call forth a farmhouse in the middle of cornfields, and I'd see myself walking on a winding dirt road, looking up as a pterdactyl slowly flapping its wings, passing across the moon. I'd picture a crumpled potato-chip bag, or a snowy tundra, where a woman was pinning white sheets to a clothesline in the wind, or the sound of something scratching on the door in the night. Maybe, I thought, the memory-recording apparatus in my head had been damaged in some way.___"That's all very poetic," she said. "But that's just whimsy, Robbie. It's not memory. I mean, you do know the difference between fantasy and reality, don't you?"____"I've had nightmares every single night of my life since it happened," she said. "God! All of us have. Poor Cecilia Joy said that she was contemplating suicide for a while, before she met her husband. She thought about killing herself, just to get away from the bad dreams!""Oh," I said. Hesitantly, I touched the stump where my finger used to be. In my mind, something almost remembered itself, but the fumes of turpentine were making me a little lightheaded; whatever memory was on the verge of coughing itself up was gone even before it materialized. Out the window, I could see a squirrel was stumbling erratically around in circles underneath the old basketball net. Then I realized that it wasn't a squirrel; it was a brown paper bag.____He would joke that we probably seemed kind of trailer-park-esque to people, two cousins with the same first name -____Despite our years of friendship, there was always a certain level of pretending going on between us.____"Oh, look. Here's an unsolved murder. Here's a rape over at the community college. I sure hope Robbie isn't involved . . . "____When Cassie said things about craziness, mental illness, schizophrenia, that sort of thing, I couldn't help but feel a bit self-conscious. Concerned. I thought about the way the world played tricks on me - squirrels, for example, that transformed into paper bags, phone calls that seemed half whited out when I woke up, memories spotted with imaginary pterodactyls and organ-grinder monkeys and glacial lakes - little things that perhaps added up.Such things might give a person pause.____I was glad that I didn't know, that first night, that I was going to be sleeping in the room of a dead boy.____I got into the bed, in between the cool, dry sheets, and put my head against the thick pillow and folded my hands over my chest as if I were in a coffin.The day I lost my finger was something like that. One minute I was on the ladder, three stories up, painting along the frame of the old round window near the peak of the house; the next minute a swimmy feeling trickled up my spine and into my brain. The window was empty and then the face of a woman floated up like a transparent reflection on the surface of water, moving toward me, pressing up against the glass, a face like someone who had loved me once, leaning over my bed at night to kiss my hair. I don't even remember falling, though I recall the feeling as my ring caught against a nail, the finger separating from my body, not so much pain as a kind of gasp. I hit the ground and the wind knocked out of me. For a second I thought I felt my soul, my spirit, bounce out of me and fly up a few feet before fluttering down and settling back into my body.What was the name of that family I lived with before I was sent to the Dowtys?Lamb? Lambert? Something like that. I sat there sending out feelers into my memory, tracing it back past the Lamb/Lamberts and it was like trying to place stepping-stones down from one bank of a creek to the other side.I ran out of room. More favorite passages can be found in the comments if you're interested :-)