A Thrilling Collection That Starts With A Good Story Before Crumbling Miserably.I was really hopeful for this collection but that hope faded as soon as I got to Animatronic Apocalypse and Bobbiedots Part 1. Then again this is a fnaf book so I shouldn't be suprised. Submechanophobia was such a good story but the other entries completely destroyed the collection. Generally disappointed as the stories are either anti climactic or show horror for the sake of some horror. You can generally tell that the writers have loss all sense as well as run out of ideas.Okay onto this very honest review. There's lots of criticisms I have of this collection and the fnaf books as a whole but there's one thing in particular that stood out to me.The random unexplained horror. This collection was hella weird especially with the inclusion of Animatronic Apocalypse and Bobbiedots. Horror is a genre where you have to find the right balance between scary and ridiculous and both of these stories fail that fine line. Especially the strange events surrounding Animatronic Apocalypse that go completely unexplained it's a happish ending but random and a head scratcher. I found myself half asleep and confused reading it instead of scared. Bobbiedots seemed promising but it was also too unrealistic, Fazbear has done a lot of weird stuff but it's not believable someone would be able to rough sleep there or that wether homeless or in a Forbidden apartment Abe doesn't get noticed. I wanted to be scared but I was just confused half of the time.Secondly the breaking up of Bobbiedots. Animatronic Apocalypse was a severely poor story and I would have rather had Bobbiedots Part 2 in the same book as it also seems like a messy and reckless pr strategy to have two parts of a short story split across two different books. At least B-7 had an ending that isn't ambiguous and feels separate from it's second part. Bobbiedots Part 1 is all set up and barley any payoff. By the end of it I found myself underwhelmed and feeling like I'd be gaslighted out of a good story. It doesn't feel like a horror story at all rather a Abe in Black Mirror story. I don't why the fnaf writers thinking splitting a story into two parts helps the collection it only slightly works in the epilogues.Finally the ambiguity. A good horror story scares and then gives the audience satisfying mysteries but Animatronic Apocalypse and Bobbiedots feel like someone watched Black Mirror half asleep. If Rye Toast a popular fnaf YouTuber hates Animatronic Apocalypse you! know you've done wrong. We do not know what's going one and don't get a satisfying answers to all the creepy behaviour. It was weird for the sake of weird. Partly excused cos its a Part 1 but Bobbiedots uses accidents and pretends its scary without giving any answers. It's also not built up enough how long the apartment has been of limits for. Submechanophobia is truly the only satisfying story.Right onto the two positives for this collection.First the story of Submechanophobia. I'm not kidding when I say that Submechanophobia is everything a good fnaf short story should be. It was perfect and had the classic core of the fnaf games. Submechanophobia felt like the story of FNAF 1 but set in an aquarium. It shouldn't work but it does perfectly. The twist is set up well, the build up is perfectly foreshadows and all the mystery and horror pays off in the end. Robbie is also an actual relatable character that has a backstory that makes sense and makes you route for him. The animatronics are left up to your own interpretation but hinted at enough without it feeling random or pointless. If you want to pick up this collection I'd specifically recommend it for Submechanophobia and Submechanophobia alone.Secondly the horror and violence. As stated Tales Of The Pizza Plex is a big step up in terms of horror and gore. Its good to see how genuinely threatening the fnaf universe can be and not have any of the violence sanitised especially in the epilogues. The Epilogues are a lot better than Fazbear Frights and build a picture of how threatening the antagonist. The Mimic is hardly their but it's clearly a clever commentary on ai and how dangerous it can become. I love how dangerous the Mimic and the setting of the abandoned Pizza Plex in the Epilogue is as well. Not just the epilogues though I felt generally scared for Robbie and felt it when someone was out to get him in the story. The horror in this collection really gets to you sometimes as well as some of the violence.Overall a very mixed bag collection that has it's highs and has it's lows. Some stories might thrill you, some might bore you. Also not for that faintest of heart or an Little Freddy fans out there. Thirteen Plus, is my own personal recommendation. Fnaf is a very bizarre world to explore.Overall Rating: 3.5 Stars ⭐️⭐️⭐️💫My rating for each individual story goes as followed.Submechanophobia: 5 Stars (Fnaf 1 but in a Aquarium which was cool)Animatronic Apocalypse: 2 Stars (A Pointless Random Bit Of Horror With No Explanations)Bobbiedots Part 1: 3 Stars (Emotional Anti Homeless Themes But All Set Up for Part 2)Epilogue 4: 4 Stars (Really spooky epilogue ruined by all the characters who just have teen angsty crushes on each other)