Iä! I read the whole thing!I love this collection. It's one of those Barnes & Noble editions they feature in-store. I don't know if later editions were made with the same quality. It's a gorgeous leather-bound tome, and the cover photo on this site doesn't do it justice. Every detail is tactile. The strip of cosmic art across the middle is borderline holographic; I couldn't quite get a picture that captures its reflective quality, but here is an alternative to the thumbnail art:It has lovely reflective silver sprayed edges and a violet sewn-in bookmark:...and wonderful endpaper artwork:At over 1100 pages stuffed with small print, it's a lot of material. There's no filler; a short introduction from Lovecraft expertS.T. Joshibridges you straight into the stories, which are presented in chronological writing order, my favorite order to read any author's work. Each story has a very brief introduction, without attribution but presumably also Joshi's.The back matter consists of Lovecraft's extantjuvenilia, which, I thought, given that the first story in the collection was written at age 14, must be awfully juvenile. I was right, they're laughably terrible in the manner of stories that only a child could write. There are a few pages of draft material fromThe Shadow over Innsmouthwhich could be considered as 'deleted scenes', and then Lovecraft's long essay and the book's sole non-fiction content,Supernatural Horror in Literature. Man, did Lovecraft ever fanboy forEdgar Allen Poe.At this essay's start, Lovecraft presents his view of cosmic horror as the ultimate distillation of primal humanity's fear, which I found similar toTerry Pratchett's description of the roots of fantasy in the introduction toThe Ultimate Encyclopedia of Fantasy. It goes on to describe trends in the genre, highlighting popular and notable works in horror from the 18th century to Lovecraft's present day.The table of contents lists an "About the Author" section on page 1099, but there is no such page in my edition.On to the stories!The Beast in the Cave: This was written by Lovecraft at age 13-14, and for that is impressive. It only starts to touch the horror of being trapped underground that, say, the filmThe Descentshows fully, muted by the narrator's early resignation to his fate. Its youthful exuberance is captured in the final words, "... aMAN!!!", bold, caps, and triple-exclamation all original.The Alchemist: Here we jump to author age 18. The ending is only slightly toned down from the previous work, retaining an all-caps finish but with only a single exclamation point.The Tomb: Another jump to age 27; this is when Lovecraft started writing in earnest. It's a wonderfully creepy story, with only a questionable supernatural element, focused on the narrator's possible madness as he recounts his obsession with a certain abandoned family tomb from his asylum.Dagon: An early hint at the later mythos tales that would capture the public's interest. Obviously the name points to later work. It contains story elements that would later be seen expanded in the iconicThe Call of Cthulhu.A Reminiscence of Dr. Samuel Johnson: Naturally, in such a collection there will be stories of interest only to the Lovecraft scholar, and this is one of those. From the introduction, “It is a brilliant send-up of Lovecraft’s well-known fondness for the eighteenth century and is written in a flawless imitation of the prose of Samuel Johnson.” Insert ‘sure, Jan’ gif here. This wit of this ‘whimsy’ flew over my head a hundred years ago.Polaris: A few days after I read this, I was about to start the next story when I glanced back and realized I remembered nothing about it. Such is the fate of certain reading while struggling to stay awake. I’m glad I reread it, because the story reflects that struggle against sleep, and invokes some Lovecraft’s later dream-world stories. I particularly enjoyed the silent ease with which the narrative slipped between real and dream worlds. The narrator could not even keep track of which was which. Notable today for the narrator’s description of “Eskimaux” as “squat yellow creatures, blighted by the cold”.Beyond the Wall of Sleep: It turns out the term ‘white trash’ was in use as early as 1919. Who knew? Another dream-world tale, more cosmic than the last, in which a psychiatrist receives a six-month paid vacation for taking on too much stress from his patient, a degenerate from that famous hotbed of brutish hillbillies, the Catskills. Points for ‘ululation’, ‘effulgent’ (twice), and ‘architraves’.Memory: A one-page “prose poem”. ‘The Genie that haunts the moonbeams spake to the Daemon of the Valley’ and so forth. Notable for its portrayal of all of humanity as a paltry blip in the course of time.Old Bugs: An anti-dissolution (drinking and debauchery) cautionary tale written by a lifelong teetotaler for his young friend as a personal missive. It was as subtle as Reefer Madness.The Transition of Juan Romero: His stories will get much better, but this was an okay early start to recounting the fear of the unknowable.The White Ship: A terrific early contribution to the Dreamlands. The first of manyLord Dunsany-inspired tales.The Street: Holy racism and xenophobia, Lovecraft!The Doom That Came to Sarnath: I was reminded ofRobert E. Howardin this primordial tale of lost lands. Of course, Howard was influenced by Lovecraft.The Statement of Randolph Carter: A fairly standard horror story. Did Randolph Carter return later, in connection with the Dreamlands, or am I either thinking of a different name or conflating these stories withBrian Lumley's later Lovecraft-inspired work?The Terrible Old Man: Nothing special, but it introduces the town of Kingsport.The Tree: Meh.The Cats of Ulthar: A must-read for all cat people and fans of poetic justice. Ulthar and its cats is another element in Lumley's version of the Dreamlands; will it be mentioned again later by Lovecraft?The Temple: A good early example of Lovecraft's epistolary tales. Nautical, set in WWI on a German U-boat, with mounting but barely-seen horror, and underwater structures that may be considered to later morph into R'lyeh.Some stories I waited too long to add to this review so I don’t have much noteworthy to say:Facts Concerning the Late Arthur Jermyn and His Family (there’s a title for you); Celephaïs (a wonderful dreamlands story); From Beyond (so cheesy, I saw the movie based on this); Nyarlathotep; The Picture in the House; Ex Oblivione.Sweet Ermengarde:Hilarious! I laughed out loud at least twice. It’s a parody of hack writing of the day, and Lovecraft pokes fun at some amateur writing tells that I often see in today’s glut of barrier-free self-published fiction.The Nameless City:First appearance of the famous “unexplainable couplet of the mad poet Abdul Alhazred”:That is not dead which can eternal lie,And with strange aeons even death may die.The Quest of Iranon:The closest thing to a fable yet encountered in this collection, and rather lovely, but inconsequential. It could be considered a Dreamlands tale.The Moon-Bog:In the span of one page are the words fulgently, refulgence, and effulgence. Things are looking bright. I also had to look up saltant (jumping). The moral is: listen to the superstitious peasants when you buy a castle in Ireland.The Outsider:The reader understands the situation pages before the narrator does, so only the captivating prose carries this story from a monster’s perspective.The Other Gods:Short and meh, but builds a “‘Craftverse” by referencing The Cats of Ulthar. We like continuity.The Music of Erich Zann:Now this is the type of mythos tale I remember best, with a nightmarish realm adjacent to our own, always threatening, and barely held at bay by brilliantly insane and esoteric means.Herbert West—Reanimator:For one of Lovecraft’s best-known properties, this is quite bad. Written on commission for a pulp magazine, it’s way more sensational and cheesy than his usual fare. In six segments (one per issue at $5 a pop), each one repeats the same setup then adds a tiny step to the story.Hypnos:Altered State Bromance. Uses “luminous” four times.What the Moon Brings:Madness. It brings madness.Azathoth:A fragment; contains no actual Azathoth.The Hound:Great! A demonic rather than cosmic horror story, florid and macabre with great energy. Reportedly the first mention of the Necronomicon.The Lurking Fear:Like Reanimator, written for serial publication in the same magazine, but this story is vastly superior and more to Lovecraft’s usual form.The Rats in the Walls:Wow, what an ending! Intense. The main characters likes cats and I was like, "Aww..." but then his main cat has a shockingly racist name and I was like, "No! Bad."The Unnamable:Meh.The Festival:Fun Kingsport hereditary cult story.Under the Pyramids:Written as Harry Houdini. The early Egypt parts were dull (maybe more exotic in 1924) but the ending horror was phenomenal, very Cthulhu-worthy.The Shunned House:Disappointing; long, dull, and without a good payoff. The only thing to fear is French itself.The Horror at Red Hook:Often cited as Lovecraft's most racist story, I didn't see that. It was definitely xenophobic, and maybe the broadness of the fear of the other, of all immigrants, diluted that effect for me. The story didn't stand out for me.He:THIS. This captured the feel I remember from Lovecraft's best-known stories, which are still to come in writing order. (Call of Cthulhu is only three stories away now.) I loved the vocabulary, and the glimpse into a future in which humanity has no role. The story reflects Lovecraft's own failed venture into New York life and rapid retreat back to New England.In the Vault:Excellent short traditional horror, with an effective build-up and a dramatic, italicized flourish of an ending. Worthy of Tales from the Crypt.Cool Air:Creative but predictable, another standard horror filling the time until . . .The Call of Cthulhu:BOOM! The unintentional founding of an empire. There were earlier stories that you could say fit into the Cthulhu mythos, but this was the one that laid out all the cards. It's got tremendous energy. It's not subtle; it expressly outs the alienness and its origins, and how it's incompatible with human experience. I loved it! (This is not the first time I've read it.)Pickman's Model:I always conflate this title withPortnoy’s Complaint. Is that weird? Another powerhouse of a story, straight horror rather than cosmic. It adopts a more natural conversational tone than most earlier stories, less archaic in style. Is this Lovecraft evolving as a writer?The Silver Key:Initially a repetitive, overwrought story of Randolph Carter's eternal ennui after the events of the forthcomingDream-Quest of Unknown Kadath, it has a nice shift towards the end. I like the way Lovecraft presents subtle and sudden narrative shifts in multiple stories.The Strange High House in the Mist:Intriguing, surprisingly more joyous than menacing, with beautiful poetic descriptions and phrases.As my remaining character limit slowly dwindles, I'll place reviews of longer stories under their respective titles and simply link to the book here.The Dream-Quest of Unknown KadathThe Case of Charles Dexter WardThe Colour Out of Space:Phenomenal, chilling. I can totally see the movie potential, but not sure which role is best for Nick Cage (if it sticks closely to the source.) The colour is not octarine. And after the two preceding stories, the longest Lovecraft ever wrote (the second-longest roughly ties with the laterIn the Mountains of Madness), as good as they were it's a relief to see a string of shorter pieces again. It feels like the writing style has shifted away from the archaic. It's no wonder these later stories are the best known; they're much easier to read.The Descendant:A "fragment", more like a partial first draft and outline for what could have been a chilling tale with a baller first line: "In London there is a man who screams when the church bells ring."History of the Necronomicon:More of a reference piece for the fictional tome, perhaps to maintain consistent in-world details.The Very Old Folk:Supposedly an account of a detailed actual dream of Lovecraft's. If this is fully the case, does it belong in his completefiction? And if there were other versions of the letter "with slight but in some cases significant differences," (and can both of those be true at the same time?) shouldn't all of them be included in acompletecollection?Ibid:The last of Lovecraft's "comical" stories, I suppose it's mildly humorous in the way of stuffy British learned gents, but not really. After these last few tidbits, I'm glad again to get to a meatier story. Next up, with only 11 stories left to go...The Dunwich Horror:This tale really sunk into the concept of degenerate backwater hillbillies, with some thickly written dialect pulled off very well. The first thing that struck me was how swiftly Lovecraft created a feeling of claustrophobia and alienation through description.The Whisperer in Darkness:Potent, chilling, and the strongest connector of the Cthulhu mythos yet with mentions of Shub-Niggurath, Yog-Sothoth, Yugoth, Mi-go, Azathoth, Leng, Nyarlahotep, the Necronomicon, Miskatonic University and more. Marred only by its predictability; although all the stories fail to surprise since the reader knows that "eldritch horror" will be the explanation for the odd events, here the narrator became particularly obtuse in failing to recognize when Akerley had been subverted. Still amazing despite the weak finale.At the Mountains of Madness<-- review is there. In short, it gave too much away.The Shadow over Innsmouth:Probably the second best-known story, afterThe Call of Cthulhu, featuring that miasmic town of fish-men and the Esoteric Order of Dagon. There's a lot in the middle that is a full disclosure of all the goings-on, monologued in an extended dialect, and then a long escape scene that could have spent less time on the specifics of the Innsmouth city map. But, the final chapter, particularly the last couple of pages, are pure Lovecraft gold.Discarded draft of The Shadow over Innsmouth:I'm going slightly out of order here; this piece appears after the Juvenalia. It didn't add anything to the final story; most of it is essentially unaltered. The beginning is stronger in the published version, and there are minor details changed from later chapters, like the name of the elderly lush who spills the entire town history is "Uncle Zadoc". The inclusion of these fragments of a draft make me wonder why there aren't any others included in this collection. Did Lovecraft not keep any drafts?The Dreams in the Witch House:The Lovecraft scholar's introduction called it "somewhat overblown prose" but I thought it was fantastic, if slightly repetitive. Blends concepts of advanced mathematics and the very Lovecraftian concept of bizarre angles and shapes that form the entry point for horror and other dimensional passage.Through the Gates of the Silver Key:A sequel of sorts to bothThe Silver KeyandThe Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath,this mind-bendy story is not for new initiates to Lovecraft lore. After pages of barely comprehensible concepts expressed as well as possible within the limitations of English and human perception, it settles into an excellent finale. This story was the launching-off point for much ofBrian Lumley's early Cthulhu mythos work, which I plan to systematically revisit after I finish this collection.The Thing on the Doorstep:As a reward for continuing this incredibly long read, I received this surprise side sequel toShadow Over Innsmouth.Even without that linkage, it's a powerful story. Body swapping, with the plot given away at the start, but nonetheless a thrilling tale.The Shadow Out of Time:Whew! I was looking forward to this one. It contains one of my favorite and most memorable pieces of Chulthu mythos lore involving the breadth and time span of conscious life and how small humanity's part in that is. Structurally it's very similar toAt the Mountains of Madness: a narrator warning humanity off investigating their own horrible archeological discovery, extended exposition laying out plainly a truth of the universe in some of the most direct worldbuilding Lovecraft ever wrote, a second horrible race that the first feared above all else, and blind flight through cyclopean ruins. This one did it all much better.The Haunter of the Dark:A fitting finale. A more traditional horror tale, reminiscent of many of his earlier stories, but with a full Cthulhu mythos overlay, especially on the fantastic final page.And then H.P. Lovecraft died of intestinal cancer.The End . . . ?