"The Gorgons and Cyphers, their real names impossible for the humans to speak or understand, had been at war over unpopulated planets for eons. They had fought each other across space, over dead pieces of rock and worlds of ice and flame, but in all that time this Earth was the first populated world they had contested. Their self-proclaimed border between what they considered their territories passed directly through the planet."Initial ThoughtsThat's it! Stick a fork in me, I'm done. Well not literally stick a fork in me, that might hurt a bit...and not in a good way. But I have reached the end of my Robert McCammon journey with his sci-fi chiller...The Border.After reading some amazing books by this author, includingBoys Life,Wolf's Hourand Swan Song I decided to read his magnus opus theMatthew Corbettseries. If I wasn't already in love with the guys writing I certainly was now. So I decided to go right back to the start, with his debut bookBaal, and read what I had left in chronological order. And now I'm finished and although it's been a fantastic experience I now feel like I have something missing in my life. That's a hint Robert, time to write more books!We all know Bob McCammon started his writing life as a horror author and made quite a name for himself with titles likeThey ThirstandBethany's Sin. But then he had a ten year sabbatical after issues with his publishers. He then reinvented himself as a craftsman of some of the most excellent historical mysteries. I know, you're sick of me telling you this. But I do have a point. The Border see's this author returning to his roots somewhat with a sci-fi, post-apocalyptic horror story that has me thinking of his epic powerhouse of a novel Swan Song. Well that's only my favourite novel of all-time so we're certainly heading down the right track.The StoryThe story opens with a teenage boy suffering from amnesia, running for his life while caught in the middle of a savage battle between two alien races. But this isn't your typical alien invasion. These two species, the Gorgons and the Cyphers, aren't interested in taking over planet Earth. Rather they are fighting over the extremities of their territory , an imaginary border from which the novel takes its name, and the rock we call home is simply stuck in the middle. Our puny weapons are all but useless against them and humanity as we know it is all but destroyed apart from a few survivors.The mysterious boy, who takes the name Ethan, is rescued by some of the survivors and taken into their community. It later transpires that he may hold the only glimmer of hope for the human race and overcoming these insurmountable odds. So begins a race against time and a fight for survival."Does your world end not with a bang, but with a whimper?”The WritingIf you asked me the one thing that has made me a fan of this author then I'd have to say his writing. McCammon is fantastically descriptive, but not in a way that's over the top, and his prose just flow. Its like he's wrapping you up in a warm blanket. Don't believe me then just give Boys Life a try.But one thing I will say is that throughout my reading experience it is clear that he has developed dramatically in terms of quality as an author. His overall prose, the way he sets up a story and the development of his characters have all hugely improved. So it was great for him to revisit the horror genre at the peak of his powers. It gave me the old-school McCammon vibe that we got with books likeStingerbut much more refined.Something that hasn't changed with McCammon is that he nearly always opens a book strongly and this one is no exception. The opening set piece is fantastic and I was straight into the high octane action which was a sign of what was to follow. The action scenes are fantastic, brutal and horrific, with the stakes always being high. This is a quality that really separates him from the other authors in the genre.Although The Border is not his biggest book, it still has an epic feel to it, similar to Swan Song. The landscape itself is desolate and bleak with only a handful of survivor's who are hanging on by a thread. The world has been completely transformed through devastation and pollution with some being mutated into hideous gray men. If the book wasn't a horror by this point it certainly was with the introduction of these hideous, cannibalistic abominations. McCammon describes it all brilliantly and it's a highlight of the book."Some may have wished it was the last day of the world, some may have prayed for it to be and wept bitter tears that it would be so, but others had prepared for yet another day to follow this one."The CharactersI'm not going to start with the protagonists here because for me the best part of the Border was the antagonists. The Gorgons and the Cyphers are nightmare creations. Both are very different. The monstrous Gorgons with their living ships and ability to turn inanimate matter into organic war machines and the high technology and stealthy Cyphers. They are fantastically done and although you never find out their history this adds a real element of mystery.The remaining characters did fall a little bit flat for me. Particularly when compared to some of the sensational efforts Bob Mac is churning out at this stage of his career. The nature of our boy’s story, which I won't go into, makes him slightly hard to identify with. And none of the supporting characters really steel the show. But with the pulpy sci-fi horror feel that he's going for I'll give him credit that they do fit within that kind of story. I feel the character development was sacrificed to keep the story fast moving. I certainly cannot fault the pacing.Final ThoughtsI'll start with the ending. This was the major let down for me and felt rushed and pretty unsatisfying. There's also a good bit of that Deus ex machina that people talk about. It just felt like the author was trying to make the end too perfect and although the final chapter is emotional and heartfelt I didn't like the overall resolution. But let me know if you feel I'm off the mark.But the experience as a whole was excellent and the first two thirds of the story were very, very good. It had my pulse pounding and my hairs up. Very exciting. It really did feel like a McCammon novel from the 80's only with better writing. Just with a touch deeper characterisation and a better ending it could have been a masterpiece.But don't let those drawbacks put you off. Its definitely worth a read for any McCammon fan or if you enjoy a bit of sci-fi horror. It is an notoriously hard book to find as apparently no publisher would pick up the paperback rights. But just do what yours truly did and pick it up cheap on Kindle. Reading things on a screen is not the worst thing in the world. Look your doing it right now. Thanks for that and...cheers!