(Now rereading this at almost 6 AM I want to apologize for nothing making sense in this review :,) )I’m sitting here and writing this review with tears in my eyes. One might think because of the ending of this book but no. It is because of the ending of this journey.Everyone who knows me personally knows I recommend this series EVERY TIME someone asks (or doesn’t ask) for suggestions.I fell in love with the characters in this story. Their bravery, selflessness, hopefulness, as well as their good hearts were addictive. Each and every character is so different from another and yet they all strived for the same goal - freedom.Freedom not only from captivity in a cell but from captivity in their society - our society -All the burdens they put on them and all the things they’ve been through are inspiring and even motivating.To stand up for what you believe in. For never giving up. And always putting love first.I don’t know if the author is aware of the story he has created. This is not only a dystopian novel but a guide for the rebels in all of your hearts, forcefully hidden there by our society.We have to question authority, we need to take bigger steps to guarantee happiness and we need to speak out on injustice.Now to be a bit more detailed about the storyI LOVED how mental health was also a part of this book.Characters suffering from PTSD and them not thinking it’s valid because “people are suffering right now“ or because “it’s not the time“ or cause “while I’m still here people have died“.It wasn’t the usual “I’m simply saying I deserve it and that’s it“ no, they were told by others that they and their problems matter and that they need to get help and will be supported with getting help.Especially seeing what the characters have been through, it was portrayed very realistically.The creativity of the author is unbelievable yet also so very realistic. All the events seeming so extrem but also so familiar gives this series it’s personal eeriness. Even the ending and seeing how opinions have always and will always differ is just exactly the way it is in our world.I think Ben Oliver really ended this series the best way possible, since it was such a complex world he created. It was very easy to mess up, yet he definitely nailed it.Now talking a bit about the charactersStarting off with Chester.In the beginning I was afraid that the book was now only going to be in his point of view. In the beginning, he seemed way too bubbly for the plot but later on I really liked him. (Still thinking he‘s no MC material for “The Loop“)It was very nice to see someone from the other side, growing up with all the privileges the other characters didn’t have and how he felt about everything that was going on.(After mentioning that he easily gets crushes on people I had really hoped he’d get a little love story but nevermind)What I found disappointing tho is that after he was introduced, came up with an escape plan, actually got Luka and the others out and was put into purgatory he was barely mentioned again.He had a lot of potential, especially with having the knowledge and experience of not only an Alt but as someone as brilliant as him also working in the Arc, his character was only “relevant“ once after and necessary to end the story after Luka was gone.I felt like there could’ve been much more with him.Skipping forward to TycoI’ve never ever been so mad at a book my whole entire life. This is the first time I actually threw a book (anyone should know I take extra good care of my books but I was so so mad)He has terminator energy through and through!!!!!THE NEXT PART CONTAINS MAJOR SPOILERS!!!!It’s 5 AM I don’t have the time to talk about every character in detail but I obviously can’t leave out LukaNever in my life as a dystopian loving reader/movie fanatic have I seen a more selfless character than Luka (I’m even putting him above Tris Prior and that says something!!)I unfortunately was somehow spoilered about him being alive (it was like an alternative blurb or something and I was so mad) however I was still soooo happy the first time we got his POV.Luka constantly concluding with his life on one side made me laugh because he simply always got away from death, while on the other hand it caused him to become this broken, tired and nevertheless fighting character.Living in this horrible world and always giving up until he remembers the people he loves and continues for them is what makes him a real hero.His love for Kina made my heart break because it was so beautifully pure. No matter what was going on, he was constantly thinking about Kina and wether she’s ok. Leaving everything to make sure she’s alright.He’s just so good.See, I can’t leave without mentioning Igby. I love that swearing bastard. His mouth is filled with insults while his heart is filled with gold.The moment he mentioned that one sentence in the subway station I knew he was going to die.He did indeed die but I hated the way it was barely mentioned. Saying a proper goodbye or something like that would’ve been appropriate (I know the situation didn’t allow it but it was just like Akimis‘ death: way too fast and without any impact)I also started tearing up when Malachai came out of the tunnel. I knew due to the lightings or the fading clouds the arcade would be able to receive energy and I was just waiting for them to appear. I love Malachai and “seeing“ familiar faces was just an extrem relief in that moment.(I still don’t know how his eyes and Chester healed since they’ve been in cryonic containers making their cells stop working)Also humongous thanks to him for FINALLY killing Tyco!!! Damn it he was so extremely annoying, it was unbearable constantly seeing him come up like a damn commercial breakThe last thing I want to mention is how fascinating I found it that technology was not only depicted as evil in the story. We had AppleMoth and R (Darn, I forgot his name) proving that you can get attached to robots and not all of them have “bad“ and “reckless“ programming. Which leads me to the fact, that this was indeed because they both had emotions. AppleMoth was a friend and acted as one.Either finding jokes funny, risking its life to help a friend, being happy when a familiar face enters the room or being sarcastic as can be.All that eventually led to the end of Happy. Seeing Luka constantly slip out of Happy‘s hands, causing the AI to kind of “develop“ certain emotions and even at one point getting desperate when Luka is about to open the door, destroying everything Happy was fighting for.I don’t even know what all that was supposed to mean but it was still so mesmerizing to follow.I will now and forever tell people to read this series and will forever keep these characters and everything they’ve taught me in my heart <3