Plot:1) Client walks into Anita's office and asks her to do something. She refuses.2) RELATIONSHIP DRAMA!3) Dolph calls her to the scene of the crime.4) Someone attacks Anita for no good reason.5) The most disgusting crime scene EVAH!6) MORE RELATIONSHIP DRAMA!7) Oh, crap, there's a plot we're supposed to tie up. Okay, well, X does it.8) Jean-Claude/Richard tries to get in Anita's pants. Anita makes stupid agreement.9) BIG SHOWDOWN.These books are getting formulaic. I guess if the formula were a bit more interesting, I wouldn't mind so much. And in fact, towards the beginning of this book, I really liked it a lot. I actually was tempted to give it 4 stars and declare it my favorite so far.And then the RELATIONSHIP DRAMA began.Now, I understand why Anita is kinda iffy about Richard. He's a werewolf after all, and I too would be a bit hesitant before committing to a guy like that. But 1) she's considering committing after maybe two months of dating (she started dating him that October and this book is set in December!) and 2) she was wounded after a fiance dumped her. For point 1, I must ask, "Really?" I though Anita had a head on her shoulders, underneath that poufy, unmanageable hair. Why would she, even hastily, agree to marry Richard? Other than she refuses to have premarital sex because of her last relationship, and this woman SERIOUSLY needs to get laid.NOTE 1: I know that in a few books I am going to eat those words.NOTE 2: I have NO PROBLEMS with a person wanting to wait before having sex. That isn't the problem. The problem is...So Anita has sex with her fiance, and he dumps her. Yeah, that's rough, but we've all gone through relationship troubles. What makes her failed engagement TEH WORST EVAH? (Of course, maybe this is supposed to show her immaturity--she is only 24 after all...)Okay, let's say I buy all this relationship drama with Richard (and, for the most part, I do). What I do NOT understand is why Anita is so stupid to allow Jean-Claude, the dude she's been trying to foist off her for the last three books, suddenly force her into dating him. Anita, the guy is a creepy stalker dude. LET HIM BE. Don't date a guy like that!And that is what makes up a good 50% of the novel. About 10% is Anita getting into a p!ssing match with someone (because what book would be complete without Anita having to prove how awesome and adept she is?), and the rest is just action scene after action scene.The actual mystery is interesting. Disappearing shapeshifters? Looking into the werewolf subculture? Yeah, I'll buy that. But after awhile, I felt LKH was just tossing stuff at us to keep up the breakneck pace (the entire events of this book occur in less than a week). Werewolf snuff films, Anita killing a werewolf, Anita's relationship drama...all of this occurs so quickly, we barely have time to breath and think in between scenes. Even Anita is run ragged--that woman had better have the best damn health insurance, because by God, she goes to the hospital probably THREE TIMES in this book alone. And for God's sake, let the woman get a whole f@#$ing night of sleep, okay?And Anita? Ugh, how the hell does this unpleasant, unlikable, rude, arrogant woman get even ONE guy after her, much less TWO? It's absolutely ridiculous. If I were a man, I'd be running the other direction from her. I'm guessing that Jean-Claude and Richard are both extremely desperate to get laid. But even that isn't true--Jean-Claude has some German vampire chick after his marbled pecks, barely concealed by his god-awful frilly shirts.And you know what? I don't have to know what every gorram character is wearing in these books. I don't need to know if Anita is wearing a red sweater with an emerald green skirt and jacket and the jacket can't quite cover the Browning. I don't need an analysis of what knee-high black velvet boots Jean-Claude is using to complete his f@#$ing awful outfit. I don't care if Casper is wearing a tweed jacket or jeans or just his birthday suit. I don't need to know that Anita has changed out of those HORRIBLE heels (because REAL WOMEN can't wear those things!!) into her black Nikes to conceal all the blood and guts she gets in contact with. I DON'T CARE.What I DO care about is an interesting story. If you are going to go the route of Romantic Drama, don't bother with a mystery plot. But if you have a mystery plot, don't spend more of the book talking about how much of Jean-Claude's nipple we can see and whether or not Anita is going to marry Richard.On a brighter note (because this review suddenly became WAY more negative than I intended), I still like Ronnie and am even liking Dolph more. And I do like seeing all these other mythological creatures appear. And when they actually attempt to solve the mystery, it is pretty good. Oh, and I do think the action sequences are written pretty damn well.If I were a smart person, I'd probably stop here, but I do really want to see how the series progresses and if it gets better (before it gets worse). If you've read up to this book and have liked the ones before, I have no doubt you will probably like this one as well. But if the earlier books haven't sold you, it's doubtful this one is going to change your mind.