First spoiler-free review of 2019! Huzzah!Holy hell…what a way to start the New Year! The good news is thatThe Gone Worldis an amazing creation, well worthy of the praise it is receiving, and is a “must read” for sci-fi fans. The bad news is that the bar has now been set awfully high, and I think I’m going to have a difficult time finding books this year that grab me and affect me like this one has.One of my favorite things about Goodreads is that I frequently come across books on friends’ feeds that I might never have heard about otherwise. I have a rather large love/hate relationship with social media, so I don’t always keep up on what’s hot or new or getting underground buzz. I prefer to find most of my reading material organically, not necessarily following an author’s every update or note about a project. And I generally tend to avoid books that everyone else seems to be reading at that time. If I’m ahead of the curve on something popular, then great. But if there’s something getting a lot of buzz, I’ll generally avoid it until the furor has died down.And this one fits that bill, having come out a year ago and getting some solid accolades. Yep, I’m a little late to the party, and I truly couldn’t be happier.As with all my reviews, I will attempt to keep spoilers to an absolute minimum. I truly despise major plot spoilers, and honestly feel that books (and movies, and music, and…) just have more impact and are more enjoyable when you go in without preconceived notions or expectations. And with books likeThe Gone Worldwhere there are so many twists and discoveries and branching plot points, to make any mention of them would lessen the impact of the work as a whole. So if it’s not mentioned in the official book synopsis, and if it has the possibility of revealing some major plot point, I’ll do my level best to avoid mentioning it here.So what can I say aboutThe Gone Worldthat won’t give something important away? Well, I can say that in the 30+ years that I’ve been reading science fiction, horror, fantasy, and thrillers, I have never encountered a book quite like this one.Though it is ostensibly a sci-fi novel (though more speculative vs. hard sci-fi), there are enough other elements that it really is more of a fiction thriller with science fiction elements as the core conceit. You want some mystery and a little bit of whodunit action? You’ll find it here. Do you like both physical and psychological horror? There’s some of that here too. Want a little romance sprinkled in amongst the mind-bending twists and turns? Voila, it’s yours.In truth, I have a hard time recalling another book that I’ve read where all of these disparate elements and genres have been blended together so seamlessly. Tom Sweterlitsch has done a truly remarkable job of creating a completely unique tale, including creating his own fresh take on time-travel, which is one of the more perilous sci-fi notions for an author to tackle.The Gone Worldis also equal parts plot driven AND character driven, and as such feels like a completely cohesive narrative, without any part getting subsumed by another.I placed a sheet of Red Roof stationery beside the picture and wrote in black Sharpie, LIFE IS GREATER THAN TIME.At the center ofThe Gone Worldis Shannon Moss, an agent for NCIS (Naval Criminal Investigative Service). Though the narrative switches from third-person to first-person at times, she is the only POV character throughout the whole book. Fortunately, she is an engaging character, courageous and driven, but fallible and too trusting at times. I always have an easier time relating to characters who are depicted as imperfectly human, with human flaws and fears, instead of perfect Molly Sue characters with no inner conflict. Give me characters who grow, learn, make mistakes and then try again. Fortunately, Shannon is very much imperfect, but she refuses to give up. It’s that determination that gets her through some truly rough times, including receiving a physical impairment that impacts her everyday life.But given the fact that she is a time-traveler for the Navy, she has to be mentally fit and flexible, as time-travel in this story can cause severe psychological strain. Even with that mental fortitude, Shannon has a bit of world-weariness that I always gravitate to with protagonists. I feel a certain sort of kinship with people who still do the right thing, even though they may be exhausted and near the end of their rope. It’s that hopeful doggedness that I admire, and Shannon has it in spades.Death is an unshared intimacy, Moss would sometimes think, finding a center of calm in the science of the morgue. Death and loss close company for her, her best friend dead, her father gone.Though this is Shannon’s story, there are plenty of supporting characters to help expand the narrative, and since this is a time-travel tale, some of them are recurring through the time-periods that Shannon visits. Each supporting character stands out, and they are all part of the narrative for a reason. Nobody is included just for color, and I admire the fact that Tom Sweterlitsch obviously gave each character a lot of thought beyond their basic characteristics.”Shannon, we’re all echoes here.”Yes, there is an overarching threat that is driving much of the action inThe Gone World, but the actual antagonists are human, and they are rendered with realistic motives and beliefs. Nobody here is superhuman. Like most good storytellers, Tom Sweterlitsch understands that the biggest monsters can be people, especially the people we least expect.That said, this isn’t really a story about good vs evil. Yes, there are some human mysteries to solve, including a murder case that is very near and dear to Shannon’s heart, butThe Gone Worldis more a story about fate and choice, and the fight to alter the course of the future by changing the present. Like I mentioned earlier, this is not the standard “change the past to fix the future” time-travel story. In fact, there is no going to the past inThe Gone World. What has happened has happened and can’t be changed, and I really enjoyed this fresh take on a well-worn science fiction trope. But beyond the unchangeable past, even the futures that Shannon travels to aren’t concrete. Every future she visits is a possible future, because once she’s traveled there and then returned to her present, called Terra Firma in the story, she is not the same person. She will now make different choices based on what she’s seen and experienced, which means that the future she just visited will no longer exist. Honestly, it’s just a very logical and well-realized version of time-travel that actually makes sense. There’s more to it than that, but I don’t want to give away any of the finer points. Needless to say, there’s serious consequences associated with time-travel, and it doesn’t always work out well for the traveler.There is no design. The universe isn’t kind or cruel. The universe is vast and indifferent to our desires.One of the things that Tom Sweterlitsch absolutely knocks out of the park is how he brings all of the divergent plot threads together. From the gripping opening chapter that establishes the tension that pervades the whole book, to the present day murder mystery that has strange ties to Shannon’s past, and all of the various futures she visits and people she meets, everything gets tied together at the end of the story. Some of the converging plot points can be a little convoluted, so this is absolutely a book that you need to pay attention to. No skimming allowed here. Even the smallest sentence or shortest paragraph can include a little plot tidbit that helps tie things together.This is also one of the most “human” books I’ve read in a bit. Fear, failure, and broken hearts are never glossed over. The side effects of time-travel manifest in a realistic manner. Our characters experience guilt, doubt, and desperation, but it’s always handled in a way that is believable and pertinent. Human beings are complex and contrary, and that is captured perfectly inThe Gone World.”It used to be thought that hell was a lack of God, but hell is a lack of death.”Another thing that needs to be pointed out is that I found absolutely no grammatical errors or wonky sentences throughout the entire book. This is likely testament to both Tom Sweterlitsch’s writing prowess as well as rock-solid editing. That said, Tom does write with a different style, one that might not be for everyone. Admittedly, it caught me a little off guard at first. But, that said, it’s perfectly readable and perfectly acceptable, even with its unique cadence and vibe. But if you can get past that, then you are in for a wonderful tale that is beautifully told.Just be aware that the ending is somewhat ambiguous, which I think was perfectly in line with the tone of the book, but some readers may have a hard time with it.At the end of the day, the elegant writing coupled with some truly fresh ideas culminated in a book that I found to be completely enjoyable and refreshingly original. Even with the New Years holiday and all the associated travel, I still managed to burn through this one pretty quickly. It’s rare anymore for me to find a book that is “unputdownable”, but this one accomplished that feat and then some. Even if science fiction isn’t necessarily your cup of tea, I think this one transcends the science and can be accessible to anyone, regardless of favorite genres. Definitely add it to your TBR!