SummaryA fifteen-year-old girl, Ellie, went missing when she was going to the library with her books. Later a thief enters her house and steals some of Ellie's personal things. After ten long years, her mother, Laurel Mack, finds her new love, Floyd, after divorcing her first husband. Later she finds out that Floyd's nine-year-old daughter has striking similarities to her daughter Ellie. What happened to Ellie, and is there any connection between Floyd’s and Laurel's family? This novel tries to give us the answers to these questions.I don't know whether I can call this book a thriller. There are not many unexpected twists in this story. So can I call it a book coming under the gentle of "acutely observed family drama"? I think that it is a mixture of both genres. The vacillating between the past and the present is done perfectly by the author. The mendacious mercurial nature of some characters in this book will rattle you to the extent of even making you nihilistic.Ellie is not a character headed for oblivion. She will definitely stay in our hearts for a long time. The author created her character flawlessly, and the amount of hardships she had to suffer makes our hearts numb for some time. The amount of courage and character she showed during the challenging experiences will make us love her more.This is not a cliched version of fiction with a bunch of peripatetic perfunctory characters with a mandatory twist at the end to consider it as a thriller. I was able to predict the ending by around 30% in the book. This book is the tragic life story of Ellie, which will bring tears to your eyes if you are a compassionate human being.What I learned from this book1) Parents guilt-tripping their childrenThis is something most parents do, and most of their children dislike. Laurel, in this novel, decided in the earlier part of her life to never do it to her children.A guilt trip is a type of emotional manipulation to make others think or do certain things in a particular way.Many of us might have involuntarily done this in our life. Lisa Jewell points it out very clearly in this book." 'Yes, well, if you ever answered your phone,' Laurel told her daughter, Hanna.Hanna sighs, Laurel sighs too, realizing she has just done the thing she always promised herself she would never do. When the children were small, Laurel's mother would occasionally make small, raw observations about gaps between phone calls and visits that would tear tiny, painful strips off Laurel's conscience. 'I will never guilt-trip my children when they are adults,' she'd vowed. 'I will never expect more than they are able to give.'"2) Toxic culture of not valuing other peoples emotionsWe live in a society where many people lacking empathy and manipulative are handling key roles. They consider people as tools for making money and personal gains. This book shows us how far they will go for getting personal benefits"Her role was simply to be a human-sounding board."3) Men and loveBlue tells a critical statement related to men and their concept of love in this book. This shows the importance of mutual love. Love is about putting equal effort into relationships. If a person who beholds the concept of unconditional love falls in love with a Narcissist, then the first person's life will be totally destroyed. Even though unconditional love is one of the ideal forms of love, it will be practical only with ideal individuals. Otherwise, we will be able to love unconditionally while others are only ready to accept that love and not to give anything in return. It will turn into a toxic parasitic relationship in no time."A man who can't love but desperately needs to be loved is a dangerous thing indeed."How can we understand that our partner is an ideal candidate for providing mutual love or unconditional love?If you are always loyal, honest, and supportive with each other and never complain about each other to other people, there is a high probability that you are ideal candidates for mutual or unconditional love. This book shows us the importance of mutual love in our life.My favourite three lines from this book"You know, how you get to forty and you suddenly stop giving a sh** about all the stupid things you worried about your whole life. Well, nine year old Poppy is already there."“Caring and being interested are two very different things.”“Stories are the only things in this world that are real. Everything else is just a dream”What I didn’t like in this bookI'm afraid I have to disagree with one character telling that our decision-making capabilities aren't fully developed until we are twenty-five years old. I think the author got the information from the Medical study conducted by the University of Rochester. In it, the final conclusion was around 25 years age and not at 25 years. Multiple other studies show different results with people's rational brain fully developed before or after this age. Even if this is a work of fiction, you should not give false Scientific information just based on an incorrect interpretation of Google's initial search results. Even though it might look like a minor mistake, it should not have appeared in this book as age and maturity are among the book's central theme. Moreover, this book deals with a character, Poppy, who is showing maturity way beyond her age.The absence of twists might irritate some of the readers. But the author's writing skills, narrative style, and the way Ellie was crafted will compensate for it easily.Rating4/5This is a must-read book if you like family dramas intermixed with few thriller elements. There is an alternate ending for this novel available on the internet, which the author initially wrote and changed to the current conclusion based on the author's literary agents' advice. (Thanks to my friend Makrand for mentioning to me about the alternate ending). I found both conclusions interesting even though the published version was more realistic.The horror of what happened to poor Ellie will haunt you for many days after finishing this book.