You know, every time i pick up one of these FNAF anthology books, i believe that maybe once they won't be awful. and almost every single time i'm disappointed. To the shock of absolutely no-one, all three of these stories are terrible.Story 1: A kid for no reason gets hunted down by a new animatronic called tiger rock that wants to rip off his arms for absolutely no reason. yep. that's the entire plot. they never really explain WHY this tiger wants to rip off his arms, he just kind of does. This is definitely the most of the "the guy doesn't deserve the bad stuff that happens to him" of the three stories. he literally does nothing to deserve this. it's not even a morality tale. it's a "sometimes children get murdered for no reason" story. which i GUESS could be scary...if every once in a while a kid made it out alive so i didn't know whether this would be a "they survive" or not. it leaves no tension or mystery when you know every character that's in these are screwed.Story 2: Half of teen's brain gets monty gator stuck in it and it's trying to take over. This one spends like 10 pages with the MC describing the scientific logistics of this plot and it's exactly as boring as it sounds. it's like the author's trying to justify or explain how or why this situation can even happen. The second half is him after being stupid at fazbear's losing his mind and his friend, and, i mean these aren't really spoilers because it's in every one of these stories, has a horrible ending. It's also terrible.Story 3: Okay, while the first two were AWFUL at least they had something to DO with The pizzaplex. Story one is about an animatronic hunting him, story 2 is about the mind of one of the animatronics taking over his brain. Story 3 BARELY has anything to do with FNAF. Like, the MC goes to the pizzaplex in the beginning for like 4 pages, and then they never go back and deal with these tiny robots that carve out his skin because a girl he likes, likes tattoos and wants to impress her and somehow the tiny robots know exactly what design he wants carved on him. how? i have no idea. this is by far the stupidest one too. He keeps getting cut and not once goes "hmmm i should probably go to a doctor or something" he just...you know..doesn't. because otherwise the story wouldn't happen. If you can't tell, i felt like this one in particular was really stupid.All three of the MC's in this are all generic. Some make worse decisions than others, and weirdly enough, all three are boys in this one. This isn't usually the case as they normally switch it up between girls and guys, but for some reason, this one's only guys. why? i don't know. This is especially cringy in the 3rd one when the kid is super simpy for the girl and it's very very stupid.The only saving grace in this one is that it read very very fast.I think the problem with these are, there's 2 ways to do these stories.1. The person earns their horrible fate through actions2. oh well, bad stuff happens to good people.For the first one, nobody here really deserved their awful fate, especially the first kid. So that kind of throws that one out the window.for the second one, if you do this, like i said before, every once in a while, you need one of these kids to escape and live, because if you don't, there's no tension, because you know every single one will die, so you don't care about stakes since there are none.All in all, these stories were just bad. Whoever writes these really needs to go back to the drawing board. They're not unnerving, scary, or deserved for the MC's. even for the younger audience it's made for. Honestly, the best story i read out of ALL of these was "Into the pit" (the first of the 3 in that one) and that wasn't from THIS series of the pizzaplex. that was from the other fnaf series. the rest have all been downhill from there.1.5 out of 5 rounded up to a 2.