Phenomenal. Just fantastic. Seems like I have read a few books dealing with mental health of late but having dealt with it in our family does this one nail the issue on the head. I recently purchased a real life biography of a person who was a NHL player who ended up homeless and mentally ill as well and that will be read shortly too. Is it me or are there just too too many of late? It’s truly a saddening issue for everyone including family members.This was my first read by Andrew Kaufman and as soon as I finished it I ordered The Lion, The lamb and The Hunted. This book is so appropriately titled. It had me Twisted in so many ways. I never knew what was coming. I don’t think I’ve ever had more notes than I did with this book. In his acknowledgements Kaufman wrote about how hard it was to write this book. That to write about someone going mentally ill and make it work was extremely frustrating. If anyone has dealt with mental illness it is extremely frustrating. You try and reach out, try to communicate and of course you do so in a rational way yet the person you are reaching out to is not rational, they may be seeing devils, they may think you are a devil or their enemy. I have dealt with all kinds of calls as a police officer but I don’t think there was any more frustrating type of call than dealing with a mentally ill person, especially if that person was scared. It is truly a disease and can rip apart families because sometimes what the mentally ill person says to family, the way they treat family, it just becomes too much. Many of our homeless are mentally ill and many people wonder how they can be left alone to fend for themselves when they clearly lack the mental capacity to do so – where are theIr families? Again I am sure most families tried and tried and finally just gave up on them. It is so sad and yet all so true. To just walk away from a sick loved one and with this disease it happens and happens to often.So Kaufman knew what he was up against in portraying someone who was losing it. Someone who was facing adult set schizophrenia. Again what a phenomenal job as I dealT with just that in our family. To care for our loved one we brought him home. We tried to help. Yet my father was often his target and my father slept at night with one eye open and his bedroom door locked. My father was so afraid, so scared of him and yet loved him so much, what a way to live. I dealt with the ever constant derailments when we would have to intervene and get him to a psyche ward. Decades of care and intervention resulted in very little positive results.This coming spring of 2024 the Canadian government is introducing legislation that will allow for the mentally ill to choose assisted suicide. I really have issues with this in that how do you allow someone who has no mental capacity to make that decision? Like for the Medically ill 3 psychiatrists have to sign off and confirm that person is in their right mind to decide. And for the medically ill there are no mental health issues, just medical. How many psychiatrists will have to sign off on a mentally ill candidate? Also if this becomes law and mainstream then expect that mentally ill person to possibly discuss it with you. It happened to me and honestly I don’t know who I was really looking out for, there true well being or my own selfish needs and having had enough of the constant turmoil and bs this person was causing us all.Why did I make this review so personal. I think my review speaks for itself. Clearly this topic is personal to me. And the way this book is written is just Phenomenal. If you are interested in learning a thing or two about mental health and at the same time want to enjoy a true psychological thriller I cannot give enough praise to this book. Hell even if you didn’t give a crap at all about mental health issues this book is still a great read on its own as a psychological thriller with just so many twists and turns that often lead you to question just what the hell is happening. And in the end it so nicely comes together. An easy five stars with a great 5 star acknowledgement by the author. Looking so forward to more of his writing. PHENOMENAL PHENOMENAL READ!!