5 Nobody can resist a baby StarsNow I understand why my comics-savvy husband suggested and recommended this to me in several occasions. The loving reviews are totally justified.I am sure you are all more familiar than me with the storywriter Cates for his previous works, surely also with the inking, colouring and lettering artists too, so I'll stick to my reaction to the story, which manages to be horror in a very matter-of-fact way, tender and funny at the same time.The story is told in non-linear flashbacks by Sadie to her own son and to all us readers, probably the most unflappable sixteen years old you will ever know, and it develops in some leaps and bounds, the volume ended way too soon for me. She's not only a teen single mom, she's also the mother of the antichrist and you are right to imagine she and her baby will be hunted down by some evil organization (apparently the antichrist gets born on a regular basis on earth).The paranormal and supernatural elements are so far just strokes in the story, not much is explained yet, but we witness some immense power signs from this baby when still in his mother's belly. There is action and blood, fun, a warlock, a hell racoon which is very promising, but for me the winning point is that this, at its very core, is a family story and the attention to the details is what made it so true and believable for me.Sadie just wants to be a good mother, no matter how scared, insecure and unprepared she feels. And no matter how different her baby seems to be, she just LOVES him and literally gives all her body can to make sure he grows healthily. I know how true this imperative is for new mothers. Even without teeth and a demon incarnation, you will bleed trying to nurse your baby...and that will not stop you. The responsibility to keep a baby alive the first weeks is not anyone ever talks about...I think she is incredibly calm and positive despite the situation she is in, very mature for her age. She worries but she takes it all in stride.She could not make it without her family and it's not a family with an easy past, but they are there with her, every step of the way. There is no judgement, no accusation, no shaming. The only moment of doubt (which is not rejection and he only needed some extra explanation) from her father is immediately rescued when he does all he can to save their lives. Her dad is just too good to be true, I wish him on every girl, especially teen mothers. Her sister is described as cold and unfeeling, a force of nature on the wrong side of the law, but she is indeed an incredible big sister and she couldn't be one if she really didn't feel. There is a panel in the story, when Sadie talks about her happy childhood memories, where we see Heather feeding infant Sadie, making her laugh and making sure she does not notice the arguing of their parents...this is the kind of details I was talking about, or when Sadie apologies to her son for using swear words while trying to tell her story.There are just a few things for me to address: I am not sure why the cursing was filtered out considering it is a horror story, I hope more will be shown soon to solidify's Sadie's personality (I am not sure which kind of girl or student she was or why she ever chose that despicable boy) and I do not care for the art, sorry, very personal taste; I think Sadie's father and sister are, so far, better visually characterized than her.Gallery of wonderful and horrific covers at the end of the volume.On to the next volume!