2021 refresh before vol3:I loved this on second read and bumped my review to 5 stars accordingly. I think the biggest difference was having read Isabel Greenberg’s graphic novel “Glass Town: The Imaginary World of the Brontës” and gaining a better grasp of that literary history after first reading this. I’d definitely recommend that book in general, but also to more fully enjoy this one, though a wiki-skim on the Bronte’s lifelong obsession with their childhood myth-making is probably enough to appreciate the cliff notes version that one of the issues here revolves around.My impatience to fully grasp the Brontë bits last time lingered most in my mind, but there’s so much more I’d forgotten. Of special note is the 3 issues fleshing out different party members’ emotional backstories while also adding more texture to the world-building of their character class in the world of Die.Original 2020 review:4.5 starsDie begins settling into what it will be as an ongoing series, satisfyingly exploring the promise of the opening arc’s vertical slice while necessarily also losing a bit of its “where will this go from here?” novelty. The first follow-up story Gillen has chosen to tell is definitely interesting, but there’s still a minor sense of loss of the purely hypothetical that most sophomore entries have to overcome.Volume 2 backs off volume 1’s aggressive introductory pace in order to better establish the contentious backstories driving each of the five main party members. What is it that this fantasy world offers them an escape from? The first issue or two can get a little too cute with the narration’s meta elements, where it feels once or twice like I’m reading Gillen’s voice and not the character he’s writing for, but in general the dialogue manages its self-aware tone well.The literary figure that makes an appearance here feels a bit more meaningful to the overall story than Vol1’s inclusion, but I was also less familiar with her, so it wasn’t quite as impactful for me personally. The painted art is still beautiful throughout but more constrained for the first half or so of the book, and then Gillen gives Hans a bit more visual material to wow with in the last issue or two and she creates some especially amazing pages. Can’t wait for Vol3 later this year!