(Just to let you know, I am going to write the same introduction as I did in my previousEmily the Strangereview because... well... that's how I started with her! XD)Emily the Strange. Man, do we go back. I've been a fan of hers since... well, years! I've always been a fan of the macabre and the grotesque. Anything that's dark and a little spooky. I love it all! I like getting the crap scared out of me so when I discovered Emily a few years back, I was quite glad. I like the weird elements that she brings. I like the oddness to her style, her personality, her mindset. Just the way she handles herself, doing her own thing, inspires me. Sure, not a lot of people get her. They think it's just some "weird comic" but that's the whole point to Emily! It's being weird! It's not about making sense or having an actual plot. It's to have fun, get into the bizarre, see the grotesque, yet still be intrigue with what the dark world has to offer. It's amazing and I love Emily for that.This issue's theme is, one of my favorites, darkness! I think this one is one of my favorites because, not only are the short stories and the references amazing, but the artwork, too! (More on that later.) I want to start off by saying how much I love Emily's way of thinking. In this volume, especially, I was able to relate to a lot of what she said. It was incredible. There are two lines especially that she says I always lived by. Felt really close to her then! <3333 Another thing I really enjoyed about this comic was the Edgar Allan Poe spin-off. I love Poe. I love his work. Emily, naturally, is a fan as well and she shows it by paying tribute to him. She also interviewed Marilyn Manson in this issue. One of the best interviews she has done by far! Those two should hang out more often. It'll prove to be quite the fiasco. There's one question Emily asked him about why he thought people played violent video games... his response: Epic! (I would say his answer but this is one of those things you have to read for yourself to fully enjoy it.) One last thing I want to mention: DDR. Dude, DDR! Do you know how long it's been since I've played that!? TOO LONG! I needs me one of them games! XD Don't mind me~ Just fangirling again.Now to the best par of this entire comic: the art. The art was so beautiful! There were two pages that were richly dark! The black the artist used to get the message across was amazing! It adds an element of chills and terror because of how dark it is. They went all out with the art in this book. I am quite pleased. It really draws the reader in with how lovely it looks and the reader stays for how amazing the weird-factor to the stories are. Really, I couldn't ask for a better issue. Read it! Read it! READ IT! You will love it! It's weird, it's fun, it'll make you stare into the darkness long enough to become the darkness! >:3 Okay, I'm just fooling now. But seriously, it's such a fun comic. And it's super short, too. It wouldn't take up your time at all. Give it a try! You might end up likingEmily the Strange. Or at least... the strange part. X3