As a huge fan of Disney villains, I first discovered Serena Valentino several years ago when I discovered her novelFairest of All: A Tale of the Wicked Queen, a prequel to the Disney movieSnow White and the Seven Dwarfs, andFairestquickly became one of my favorite novels of all time upon reading it. She has since published several more books that take place in the same universe, effectively creating her own universe in which most (if not all) classic Disney movies seem to coexist. Not too long after becoming a fan of Serena and her writing, I also discovered that she had two series of graphic novels, one titledGloom Cookieand the other titledNightmares & Fairy Tales, but it has taken me a long time to get to start reading them because, as Serena has stated herself, they are now out of print and difficult to find, and I have begun reading theGloom Cookieseries due to having put holds on the books through the interlibrary loan system via the college where I teach. My hope is that I will be able to continue to do this for the entirety of both series because I absolutely love the first volume ofGloom Cookie, and much is left unresolved at the end of this first volume (which collects the first six issues of the series). Serena Valentino is the writer, and Ted Naifeh is the artist, and both the writing and the somewhat Burtonesque art come together to create a wonderful blend of gothic beauty and comedy, and while I know that there is probably almost no chance of this ever happening, I think thatGloom Cookiewould make a great television series. While it may be true that some of the characters, such as the bad gothic poet Vermilion, are simplified and seem to function more as caricatures than fully developed characters, that works well toward the purpose ofGloom Cookie's world, which seems to playfully and affectionately poke fun at and parody gothic culture and gothic art: "At first he seemed really cool and stuff," Lex (the story's lead heroine) explains to her friends as she recounts a date gone wrong with the aforementioned Vermilion. "He even planned a picnic at the graveyard" (Valentino 55). Perhaps the most intriguing character is the story's primary villain, Queen Isabella; even though she is spiteful and vengeful, the story frequently hints at the possibility that there is literally more to her than meets the eye, and her slim figure, black attire, and horned head (she can actually be seen on the graphic novel's cover art) all come together in order to remind me a great deal of Maleficent. I, in fact, recently sent Selena a message and told her that, and she said, "She was an inspiration. I've always loved Maleficent." (There is even a scene inGloom Cookiethat is definitely intended to be reminiscent of the iconic christening scene from the opening ofSleeping Beauty. Much of the narrative, in fact, seems reminiscent of classic fairy tales.) I also love the anachronisms seen throughout the story; many of the story's elements (such as Pukémon, Icky Martin, The Spice Sluts, and The Backyard Boys seen as posters on characters' bedroom walls) seem to place it in the late 1990s or early 2000s (which is actually when Serena originally penned the story), but other elements (such as Victorian attire and hansoms) seem to place it centuries sooner than that. I absolutely loveGloom Cookie, and there is only one reason why I award it four stars rather than the full five stars: there are several rather annoying errors throughout, such astheirortherebeing placed where it should bethey're,yourbeing placed where it should beyou're, etc., and with part of the story being set in New Orleans, the infamous serial killer Madame Delphine LaLaurie is mentioned, but her name is (perhaps intentionally?) misspelled as MadameLe Lori. As someone who majored in English in college and now teaches it, I cannot help but notice such errors and be (slightly) annoyed by them, but they do little to nothing to take much away from the story. As aforementioned, I adoreGloom Cookieand am really looking forward to reading the second volume.