InSEXts had a a lot of great things going for it: A great setting, nasty but appeasing body horror, sexiness, a great central lesbian couple (I was never sure if Lalita was lesbian or bi but still her romance with Mariah is great), and various themes that it tackled. This first volume holds these elements together but sadly slips up in the last issue.The romance between Lalita and Mariah is one of the best things about InSEXts. They love each other so much and see each other as saviors to one another. I found it nice that both of them acknowledged and were okay with William's love toward Lalita and saw no need to get rid of him. William in general was a great character. I love how Marguerite Bennett tackled all the stereotypes of women and race in this series. Such as the "wandering womb" scene in the clinic, Lalita's half-Indian Brahmin heritage, and the colonialist and Orientlist views of women's sexuality during the time period. These were done with care and yet pulled no punches when showing how harmful they could be and how women such as Lalita and Mariah could (literally) fight back against them. Overall, the story of InSEXts is how a woman's body can be viewed as horrifying by men, other women, and the woman herself yet how that woman could weaponize her own body under her control.Where InSEXts slips however is with some of its art, storytelling, and the final issue of this volume. For the most part, the art is okay. However, at times the facial expressions are not fully emoting the way they should be during scenes of shock. The clinic scene where Lalita's vagina eats the twisted doctor. The doctor himself looked rather calm despite being dismembered. Other times there was some same face-ness happening between Lalita and Mariah. The final battle in the second to last and last issues is where the artwork plummets. Why does Mariah have dirty blonde hair instead of red hair for such a time. The fight scenes with the Hag wrapping the cynos in her vines and battling Lalita in her "ultimate form" are sloppy. I couldn't tell what was going on or how certain characters got to certain positions. At one point William is just looking at the Hag then suddenly he's in her mouth; scenes like these could've benefited from some more fluid transition shots/scenes. Also, where did Elsie come from after they killed the Hag? She just appeared out of nowhere.Also, why do they transform into bug creatures? Did Mariah already have this ability and then gave it to Lalita with the egg in the beginning?Overall, a 3.0 out of 5.0 stars. A good and still thoughtful comic. But the art, pacing, and aspects of the story could use some cleaning up.