Sometimes life takes over. And life is still here, and it’s not going anywhere. But my copies of Tintin have been sitting there, still looking at me, wondering why I stopped my in-depth exploration of their content in 2022. Michael Farr’s companion is still there as well. What isn’t there, perhaps, is the patience I had when I was writing my other reviews on the first 7 volumes. But I want to continue the deep reading. It’s time forKing Ottokar's Sceptre.Last time around (inThe Black Island), we were in Scotland. This time, we are in Syldavia. Quick stop over in Prague and we are off. I remember this volume being “meh” when I was a kid. Isn’t that just apt? The political intrigues happening in the background bored me. I found the actual chases in car and on foot to be the most exciting parts of this adventure. Slightly different now.I have appreciated learning more about the historical and political backdrop of this story. Hergé was writing this while Hitler was going about the Anschluss and annexing Austria. At the same time, we had the handiwork of naive Neville Chamberlain. We also had a host of other tensions in the region, including a focus on Slovakia, Czechoslovakia, and finally, Poland. Why is this relevant? Tintin travels to the fictional Syldavia (itself inspired by various nations in the region, which included Poland and Albania), and his adventure is focused almost exclusively on stopping a fascist takeover of Syldavia by the neighbouring (and equally fictional) Borduria. Farr mentions the following:“So, on September 1, 1939, just three weeks after the Syldavian adventure concluded with Tintin saving the kingdom from a fascist takeover, Nazi tanks rolled over the Polish border and began Hitler’s well-planned Blitzkrieg, provoking the Second World War. Despite hopelessly valiant resistance, Poland was crushed in less than a month. Once again world events had been anticipated by Hergé with extraordinary insight.”I’ll continue to quote from Farr:Asked years later by Numa Sadoul about his creation of Borduria, Hergé noted that there were in this adventure “insignia that very clearly denoted the SS.”“At the time,” he continued, “Germany was of course in mind; Ottokar’s Sceptre is nothing other than the tale of a failed Anschluss. But one can take it to be any other totalitarian regime. Colonel Sponsz appears as well to be typically German, an Erich von Stroheim type. Moreover, isn’t the villain of Ottokar’s Sceptre called Müsstler, evidently a combination of Mussolini and Hitler? It strikes me as a clear allusion.”The Syldavian landscape itself is wonderfully quaint. I found a picture of Farr’s book online and I put it here now, as I am far too lazy to take a picture myself and upload it:You can clearly see the inspirations for Hergé’s characters. The Syldavian lemonade seller is an almost exact replica of a Macedonian lemonade seller.As Tintin is flying out to Syldavia with Professor Alembick, he reads a brochure about the nation on the flight. A standout moment of the book for me personally, as we are introduced to some history and myth, specificallyThe Battle of Zileheroum:This is “in the style of Persian miniatures of the [XVth century] with a flattened perspective and rather balletic warriors prancing, or elegantly lying dead, between pretty flowers and trees”.Of course, the creation of Syldavia (and Borduria) was too useful for Hergé, as it was a direct one-to-one parallel to what continued to unfold in the real world. So we will come back to this location in a few other adventures.Finally, a very important canon character is introduced: Signora Bianca Castafiore of La Scala, Milan. She will be with us for the remainder of the series, more or less (even lending her name to one of my favourite late adventures). When I was a kid, I used to think that her singing was horrible, because that’s truly how Hergé depicts his characters’ reactions to Castafiore’s singing. Turns out, not necessarily – it’s just top level opera, and as Hergé mentioned, “Opera bores me, to my great shame. What’s more, it makes me laugh”. Okay. That makes more sense.