4/5 stars.Born into an elite family in one of the Republic's wealthiest districts, fifteen-year-old June is a military prodigy. Born into the slums of the Republic’s Lake Sector, fifteen-year-old Day is the country’s most wanted criminal. But his motives are not as sinister as they often they seem. One day June’s brother is murdered and Day becomes the prime suspect. Now, Day is in a race for his family’s survival, while June tries desperately to avenge her brother’s death. And the two uncover the truth of what has really brought them together and the lengths their country will go to in order to keep its secrets.I was a huge fan of theLegendtrilogy. So, when I saw this at the library I had to pick it up. I usually don't read that many book to graphic novel adaptations but the cover art looked promising. I know you aren't supposed to judge a book by it's cover but I think judging a graphic novel by it's cover is acceptable.This graphic novel was very similar to the book, which I really appreciated. They hit all of the major plot points of the book and even added a couple details that added to the plot. There were quotes in the graphic novel that came straight from the book. The appearance of the characters were spot on. All of these small details just added up and made the reading experience 10x better.The art style wasn't my favorite, it was nice and simple which made the story easy to follow, but it was very stereotypical "manga". Granted, that art style is amazing but I don't think it really fit the story it was portraying. The color scheme was very simple and dull, they used lots of greens and browns. This did however compliment the art style and the story.The story was fast paced and easy to follow, even when the fight scenes got a little dicey. There were a couple scenes that were rushed, that could have been drawn out better. But, overall I really enjoyed experiencing the book again. If you want a re-fresher ofLegendthis graphic novel is very loyal to the book and was very enjoyable.