Levius is a war orphan MMA arena boxer who's been cybernetically augmented with a special arm. In this case MMA means the sport of mechanical martial arts. Set right after World World I in a sort of alternate history that developed advanced science and medicine. Levius has been taken in by his uncle Zach, with a mysterious past of his own. Together with Bill, a brilliant engineer who keeps Levius' augments working, they hit the MMA federation and get to the highest ranks... but not without opposition. All because the economics of war are too advantageous to certain organizations and they want to use the MMA to ignite the flames of a new war! Levius/est is the next part of the story as Levius deals with the fallout from winning his world altering MMA battle.Things didn’t end happily just because Levius won his battle. However, we see that hope is not lost. Particularly A.J.’s circumstances have changed. The underground facility was quite shocking visually. Zach and Bill have Levius’ future in their hands. I loved how their personalities dictated how they responded, both understanding the other. It’s a beautiful friendship!We meet a new character that rivals Hugo for most extreme personality! It’s a girl from a Levius and Zach’s past. She makes for a crazy addition to everything going on. A.J. Is like a calm storm to this new girl, I really appreciated their contrast. We also learn more about the new head of Levius’ new gym. They are mega benefitting from that battle of Levius.A.J. is quite important now with Amethyst starting a new war. I really appreciate how she put everything together. She really suits Levius, for this not being a romance story I love the two of them together. I feel like they could be happy eventually. I really want to see that happen.Levius/est vol 1 establishes this theme of sheer willpower. We learn more about the steam power that runs everything in this alternate history. And how Levius and A.J.’s pasts fueled their willpower. It’s also a part of the other characters pasts too. I really love how persevering through the difficulties life brings her is the focus of this series, it’s so true to life. Now I’m anxious how Levius and A.J.’s willpower will play out in this war. Onto the next volume!