Skyward takes an interesting concept – what would the world be like without gravity? – but it's weighted down by a weak, predictable story and dialogue...and perhaps some tone deafness too.Skyward follows Willa, a teenager with no real character other than teenage tropes: she has a crush and wants to explore the world. Willa was a baby when gravity stopped twenty years ago on “G-Day”; her father is a disgraced scientist who foresaw G-Day. He's now presumed dead, but he's actually unable to leave their Chicago apartment, paralyzed with fear of the outside.A Chicago with no gravity has some interesting elements to be sure – protective ropes and pulleys help keep everyone from drifting off into the sky, meaning certain death; how food delivery works; firearms are now useless, as weapons at least; and the positive effects for those, once considered disabled, who can now get around just as easily as everyone else. The wealthy live on the ground, in magnetic boots and in complete denial; it’s an interesting socioeconomic (and possibly also climate change) commentary that was hinted at but not explored.Unfortunately, Henderson’s writing is full of exposition, unnatural and stilted dialogue that is clearly meant for the reader. Willa’s first conversation is about what gravity was like, which, after 20 years, she's definitely asked before; she tells characters her relationships to them instead of showing us. The villain is cringe-y obvious from the start: Nate’s former partner who’s in it for the profit (conveniently said explicitly), along with overtly menacing visuals. He even has a monologue, and he punches Willa, a teenager, in the face. Multiple times. Even if this is for a YA crowd, it's still lazy writing.While no creators are bound to write characters who exactly match their identity, it’s impossible to ignore that Skyward, with a Black woman protagonist, comes from a team of all men, none of whom (as far as I am aware) identify as Black. Taking place in Chicago, with a socioeconomic commentary, only heightens this disparity. I'm not Black but all sorts of alarm bells for potential tone-deafness are going off.Is it still possible to have a well written story in this case? Of course. But it's also worth asking how Willa's character would be different if she were written by a Black author, specifically a Black woman, especially if this story suggests a socio-economic commentary, and/or a climate justice commentary (and climate inequities more greatly affect people of color). Willa is by far the least developed character in the book, and even though Skyward takes place in Chicago, Nate and Willa are the only people of color in the series so far.Not unlike Paper Girls and many other comics across publishers, it’s strange to see more non-male and non-white protagonists, but still not enough women and people of color actually writing and drawing them.I’m not a fan of Garbett’s art either. He has a very fluid style along with an interesting interpretation of a natural disaster that forms the climax of the first volume. His art definitely carries the final issue as the story continues to be predictable at every turn. But there’s something about the way Garbett draws facial expressions – also fluid but imprecise to the point that often it doesn’t stick the landing. Colorist Antonio Fabela uses wonderful bold colors – especially the purples and yellows when Willa travels to the ground level of Chicago, which reminded me of Batgirl Year One.Skyward was nominated for an Eisner in the Best New Series category, and a film adaptation is in development (with Henderson writing the adapted screenplay) so clearly others enjoyed this story much more than I did. However, I try to still give debut series one more chance; I won’t be terribly excited to pick up volume two, but it might still surprise me.