Individual parts of this book rate as high as five stars for me, but I've got to take it as the whole.The story:Each separate piece of the story stands well on their own. I do wish they'd been more connected. For example, once she left home, she never thinks of her parents or siblings again, nor do they make any attempt to contact her. That felt odd to me. The only attempt to tie two of the stories together is in the last two stories, but the transition is very abrupt. At the end of "The Wicked Temple," Riley cheerfully leaves her god-bird friend behind and rides off to another adventure; at the beginning of "The Golden Trumpet Tree," the injury she'd received is killing her and her horse is dead for an unknown reason. There's nothing at the end of "The Wicked Temple" that implies her situation is that dire, and what on earth happened to her poor horse? The story doesn't say!I also have to protest the ending of "The Golden Trumpet Tree." It's a really sweet story, but look, I'm sick and tired of tragic queer narratives. This isn't because I demand happy endings, but rather because there is a harmful trend of LGBT+ characters only being allowed to exist if something bad happens to them. Writers, stop burying your gays! I promise, nothing bad will happen if your leading lady gets to keep her girlfriend! The LGBT+ community has seen far, far too many stories that end in heartbreak. You're not being creative or original; it's just a cliche at this point! I'll continue to scream this from the heavens until the dead gay lover stops being a thing. We're a long way away from that, unfortunately, and so I continue to scream.The artwork:Most of the artwork in this book is gorgeous! I LOVED the art for "The Serpent in the Belly" and "The Golden Trumpet Tree," especially. GORGEOUS! So vibrant and full of life!...And then there's "The Wicked Temple," which, uhh?? I guess some people might like that style? I found it to be very messy, and it was difficult to see what was happening in the action scenes. It was devoid of the color that is so, well, BOLD in the rest of the stories. It's just blah. Blah Riley. No, no, go back to the strong flowing lines and the vibrant colors!In summary, there were a few disappointments and the book could have used some more cohesion, but I did enjoy reading it. I really enjoyed reading a graphic novel featuring a smart, brave woman of color!