This might sound ridiculous to quite a few people reading this review, but I came around to reading this Tintin story as a consequence of my interest in UFO phenomena. Until the 1930s, ball lighting were mysterious "lights in the sky" which meteorologists disputed the existence of. General scientific consensus back then viewed ball lightning with the same skepticism that most scientists today aim at hypothetical plasma vortices theorised by UFOlogists such as Jenny Randles as responsible for those crop circles that are particularly difficult to explain as man-made. I then remembered that ball lightning not only plays an important role in this Tintin story, but also makes an appearance on the very cover art.Then I noticed that the two-parter of "The Seven Crystal Balls" and "Prisoners of the Sun" were among the few Tintin stories I had not read until now, for some reason. Reading them soon after "The Broken Ear" was an interesting experience. Both revolve around archaeological artifacts being taken from South America to Western Europe with grave consequences for the Westerners as the indigenous peoples of the America do not take lightly to having their sacred objects placed in museums on the other side of the planet. Yet the later two-parter feels like an immense improvement over "The Broken Ear". This is in no small part a consequence of Hergé's decision to space out the story over two volumes. As a result, he doesn't have to move from one action scene or plot twist from the other with reckless abandon but can instead develop each subplot in more depth and give the individual characters more interesting things to do.Speaking of the supporting cast, I just realised that another reason "Crystal Balls" is much more interesting than "The Broken Ear" is that in the meantime Tintin has acquired all the familiar supporting characters like Captain Haddock, Professor Tournesol, Dupond & Dupont, Madame Castafiore etc. Let's face it, on his own Tintin is a fairly boring character, but as soon as the aforementioned cast of eccentrics become regular fixtures of the series Hergé now gets a lot of humour out of Tintin often being the "only sane man" in the cast.Another edge over "Broken Ear" is that being a two-parter, Hergé can now in each of the two halves of "Crystal Balls"/"Prisoners" focus more on getting a particular genre right. I have as an adult become quite the fan of 1920s/1930s detective novels such as Georges Siménon's Inspector Maigret and Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe novels, and "Seven Crystal Balls" for the most part plays like a quite satisfying example of that form. The maybe-magic, maybe-mundane element of supernatural horror that Hergé uses here, in the form of the curse surrounding a mummified Inca king brought to Europe, is also used effectively in the context of an otherwise realistic detective story by Hergé. This is where the ball lightning comes into play, as it figures into the Inca prophecy at the heart of the story and culminates in a scene modelled on a real life incident here in Denmark in 1939 that cast aside all doubt surrounding the existence of ball lightning where a ball lightning enters the private laboratory of a prominent scientist during a thunderstorm and wreaks much havoc. That scene is disturbing to this day especially for a story aimed at children, and must have been even more so when ball lightning had been the stuff of legend until recently.