Many years ago, every day at the same time, televisions up and down the country would boom out“Hergé’s Adventures of TIN-TIN”. English children everywhere would drop whatever they were doing, and for the next five minutes would be glued to the family television set. Because five minutes was all there would be each day, of this action-packed continuing animated film.The first story to be adapted wasThe Crab with the Golden Clawsin 1956, although a favourite of mine, much repeated all through the 1960s, was“Objective, Moon!”(which sounds great to a small child if you say it in a big boomy voice). They were adapted from large format slim paperbacks, with stories in comic strip form, four strips per page, and an occasional full page illustration. To be honest, although they are instantly recognisable, I’m not sure I ever read the books. So over time, the memories receded.Then I learned there was to be a major film called“The Adventures of Tintin”. It was to be directed by Steven Spielberg, produced by Peter Jackson, and partly written by Stephen Moffat. The plan was for a motion capture computer-animated film, with a starry cast of actors to provide the voice-overs. With names like these, it was a must-watch film, and I vaguely wondered what had caught the attention of these cinema giants, to want to revive the series. I learned that Steven Spielberg had become an avid fan of the Tintin comic books in 1981, after a critic reviewing his film“Raiders of the Lost Ark”had compared it with Tintin’s adventures. There had been live action film versions of Hergé’s comics before, but Hergé himself didn’t like them, and thought that Spielberg was the only person who could ever do Tintin justice. Hergé met with Spielberg in 1983 and although he died that week, his widow subsequently gave Spielberg the rights in 1984.The film was put on hold, and finally made for release in 2011. It proved to be an exciting and fast-paced adventure. The plot was a loose adaptation of three “Tintin” booksThe Crab with the Golden Claws(1941),“The Secret of the Unicorn”(1943) and“Red Rackham’s Treasure”(1944). It was called“The Adventures of Tintin”in the USA, and named after the middle book of the series,“Tintin: The Secret of the Unicorn”elsewhere:Watching this proved entertaining enough for me to search out the original books, which are still in print, and I started at the beginning withThe Crab with the Golden Claws.What a treat it proved to be! I chortled my way through it, enjoying the language as much as the cartoons, and realising that, clever as the special effects in the films could be, a lot of the humour could not transfer. Many of the expressions on the faces of the characters, the liveliness of the drawing style, the sneaky asides in the detail (which the reader only notices after a moment) – all these are necessarily lost when a successful cartoon is changed to a different format. Here is the first page:Yet this is only a taster for the story itself. To start with, Tintin meets up with his friends Thomson and Thomson. They are alike as two peas in a pod; a couple of bumbling Belgian civil servants, complete with brollies and bowler hats. They tell him of a case involving a drowned man, some counterfeit coins, and a scrap of paper from what appears to be a tin of crab meat with the word“Karaboudjan”scrawled on it.Tintin instantly remembers the piece of paper Snowy had dragged out of the dustbins, and runs back to see if he can retrieve it. The action-filled pages describe Tintin’s investigation on a ship called the“Karaboudjan”where he is taken prisoner by a gang of criminals who have hidden opium in the cargo of crab tins. With the help of his trusty friend Snowy the dog, who chews through the ropes tying him up, Tintin escapes from the cabin he has been locked in, by knocking out the man bringing him food, leaving the man himself bound and gagged there instead.Then we see the first introduction of everyone’s favourite seafarer,“Captain Haddock”, who is a recurring character in the series. Instantly we deduce that this sea captain is, at the moment, very worse for drink. Very maudlin and comically yearning for his dear old mother, he is completely useless to our young hero Tintin. Captain Haddock has been manipulated by his first mate, Allan, and is unaware of his crew’s criminal activities. Tintin hides in the locker under the bed and gets the better of both Allan and Jumbo, the sailor left in the cabin, by tricking them into thinking he has climbed out of the porthole back into the storeroom. It is Jumbo who is left tied to a chair and gagged. And while Allan blows open the storeroom door with explosives, only to find it empty, and Jumbo tied up in the Captain’s room, our plucky young hero and Captain Haddock have managed to escape in a handy lifeboat.The scenes in the lifeboat are hilarious, as more than once the daring duo’s lives are in peril due to the drunken exploits of Captain Haddock. However, they manage to send a radio message to the police about the cargo, whereupon they are attacked by rapid gunfire from a seaplane. Never fear, Tintin and the Captain hijack the plane, tie up the pilots, and try to reach dry land. Captain Haddock’s drunken antics in a storm mean that they crash-land in the Sahara, and the plane bursts into flames, whereupon the imprisoned crew escape.They have no food and no water, but Snowy is dauntless and leads them to a place full of bones. Surely this is all they will need?They trek across the desert, and the combination of Captain Haddock’s inebriation, desert mirages and dehydration nearly combine to be the end of both of them.But eventually Tintin and Captain Haddock are rescued and taken to the French Outpost of Afghar, where they meet the hearty“Lieutenant Delcourt”. (He plies them with drink, but Tintin insists that they will not join in, much to Captain Haddock’s disgruntlement – and our delighted amusement). The three hear on the radio that the“Karaboudjan”has sunk in a violent storm, and Lieutenant Delcourt provides Arab guides and camels to help them on their journey to a Moroccan port.On the way they are attacked by armed raiders near“Kefheir”, but Captain Haddock is magnificently brave, fighting them off as much with his extraordinarily eccentric and elaborate use of language, and aggressive postures, as anything:“Swine! Jellyfish! Tramps! Troglodytes! Toffee-noses!… Savages! Aztecs! Toads! Carpet-Sellers! Iconoclasts! … Rats! Ectoplasms! Cowards! Baboons! Parasites! Pockmarks!”and so on. Captain Haddock has shown himself as a force to be reckoned with – and to have a very short fuse.However, once at the port of“Bagghar”, they keep getting separated as they try to find the harbour master. Then the worthy and valiant Captain Haddock is kidnapped, after he and Tintin recognise the disguised ship, the“Karaboudjan”. Various other diversions are provided by a mad dog (Snowy acting the part) and a stooge of a businessmen, Tintin disguised as a blind beggar, and the Thomson twins reappearing heavily disguised in Arab robes. They tell Tintin of a wealthy merchant,“Omar ben Salaad”, who is selling the crab tins. Together they decide to discreetly investigate, and despite much confusion and bumbling, manage to trap some of the gang in a cellar and call the police. Both Tintin and Captain Haddock (and Snowy) unfortunately become intoxicated by the fumes from wine barrels which had been shot with holes by the villains, but eventually Captain Haddock chases a member of the gang from the cellar to an entrance behind a bookcase in Omar ben Salaad’s house:“Harlequin! Hydrocarbon! Polynesian! Gyroscope! Anthropithecus! Blackbird! Invertebrate! Liquorice” “Tiddley–om–pom–pom”(this last merrily sung by Tintin).Gradually sobering up, Tintin discovers a necklace of a crab with golden claws on the owner of the wine cellar, who is of course Omar ben Salaad, now lying senseless, heavily stunned by the falling bookcase. They realise that he is the leader of the drug cartel. Allan, Captain Haddock’s mate and leader of the gang steals a boat and tries to escape, but the two set off in hot pursuit, aided by the Thomson twins (still in their robes) and the Moroccan police. After more hilarious capers, Tintin captures him, and he is arrested.A Japanese man introduces himself to Tintin. He is“Bunjo Kuraki”, a police detective who had been trying to warn Tintin of the drugs gang. He had been kidnapped but managed to sent Tintin a note, of which only the scrap with the word“Karaboudjan”was found. Bunjo Kuraki had been investigating a sailor,“Herbert Dawes”, who had been a member of Captain Haddock’s crew. He had boasted to the detective that he could get him some opium, but had since drowned.Turning on the radio a few days later, Tintin learns that, thanks to him, the entire drug cartel“the Crab with the Golden Claws”is behind bars. Captain Haddock has been invited to give a talk about the dangers of drink, but there is a curious lull in the radio programme. The story ends on an amusing note. Apparently the gap in the broadcast was due to the shock Captain Haddock experienced on drinking a glass of a most unfamiliar beverage – water!“The Adventures of Tintin”was originally a series of comics by the Belgian cartoonist Hergé. They featured a young Belgian reporter“Tintin”and his dog“Snowy”. Surprisingly, the stories do not seem overly dated. Yet originallyThe Crab With the Golden Claws, the ninth one, was serialised in weekly parts between October 1940 and 1941. It was published in“Le Soir Jeunesse”, a children’s supplement to“Le Soir”, Belgium’s leading francophone newspaper, and was therefore published in the middle of the German Occupation of Belgium during World War II.AlthoughThe Crab With the Golden Clawswas published in book form shortly afterwards, it was not published in the USA until the 1960s, as the first Tintin story. It had been heavily edited to remove all black faces. The black Africans depicted in Hergé’s original were changed to be a white sailor and an Arab. Apparently the American publisher had reservations about depicting blacks and whites mixing together. This has resulted in a rather odd cartoon where Captain Haddock protests“Arrest that Negro! He’s a gangster …”and the reader can clearly see that the character running away is a heavy-set individual with swarthy skin, a stubbly chin, a drooping moustache and a skull cap!Although these are cartoons, in my opinion the drawings are mainly gently poking fun at personality types, rather than depicting offensive ethnic stereotypes, which could have been the case from drawings of this period. The accent is heavily on the humour. For instance, we are invited to identify with the affronted imam in front of a mosque, having kicked out the Thomson twins (now sitting crestfallen on the road) for not having removed their shoes. Whether it is a portly French gentleman, a faceless member of the French police, a handsome and affably dim, square-jawed Army officer, or a small and slender Japanese man, finely featured with narrow eyes and dimples, all are depicted with great humour and charm. We laugh amiably at them all – and at ourselves for doing so. The thugs are typically thugs, and of various racial types.Although this book can be enjoyed by young children, who will follow the story through the pictures, it is quite a complicated plot to follow in detail, and has a wealth of incidentally funny moments which only an adult will see. Many of the place names are puns. For instance, the town of“Kefheir”is a pun on the French expression“Que faire?”, meaning“What is to be done?”, and the port of“Bagghar”(baggare) translates as“scrape or fight”. Best of all, the name“Omar ben Salaad”means“Lobster Salad”in French.This book will likely give you a few guffaws, and fortunately there are over twenty in the series to look forward to, the next book of course being the one the film was called after“The Secret of the Unicorn”. It is a fast-moving, exciting story, full to the brim with slapstick humour.But it has to be said that my favourite character of all is the brave, super-intelligent, canine consort and faithful friend, Snowy. He’s my true hero.