TRIGGER WARNINGS: RAPE, GANGRAPE, FORCED DRUG USE, RAPE OF CHILDREN UNDER AGE 18, SUICIDEPLEASE DON'T READ THIS BOOK OR THIS REVIEW IF YOU HAVE A SENSITIVE STOMACH OR HAVE EATEN IN THE LAST FOUR HOURS.THIS REVIEW IS GOING TO BE RIFE WITH SPOILERS, YOU'RE WARNED.This book is a mildly fictionalized version of Gloeckner's real life. I'm just going to spell out what happens here, because trying to pair what happens with my emotion might lead to vomiting and bloodshed. This is how it goes:- Monroe (Minnie's mom's boyfriend, who has raised her since she was 11) starts touching Minnie's breasts. She's 15. He's 35. He's her mom's bf. He keeps telling her she's making him hard and she's curious about having sex so they 'have sex'. (It's really rape, she's 15. Any time I use 'have sex' in quotes I mean 'rape'.)- She's a virgin and he's "really surprised." She's 15 and he's raised her since she was 11, so either he's a fucking idiot or he's just pretending like he had no idea she'd be a virgin.-It hurt and it still hurts and I'm sure it was the most colorful blood that will ever come out of me. Afterwards, we lay quietly beside one another on the bed. We both still had our jackets on, naked from just the waist down. I drew an "X" on his leg with my blood. He said he couldn't believe I was a virgin.- She picks up a random 16-year-old boy in the park and fucks him in the bushes. Monroe is not really good in bed and he treats her like a child so she's looking for satisfaction elsewhere.- Monroe appears to also have designs on her 13yo little sister.- Minnie starts dating a boy at school named Ricky. He's an asshole. They have sex.- She drinks all the time and is drunk a lot.- She find out her best friend Kimmie goes over to Mr. Cortos' house all the time. He gives her $100 dollars every time she's there. Sometimes she lets him rub her down with suntan oil and grope her.- We meet Pascal, her former stepdad, who's known her since she was 4. He keeps writing mildly sexual things to her and it's fucking creepy. Throughout the whole book we are wondering if he is a fucking creeper or a halfway decent guy. SPOILER ALERT: He's a fucking creeper piece of shit.- Kimmie (the best friend) babysits for a black man who is married to a white woman. He has her give him blowjobs every chance he gets. He wants to fuck her all the time but his cock is too big and she always begs him to just let her suck her off. She sees nothing wrong with this or what she's doing with Mr. Cortos.- Ricky's friend Arnie lies to Minnie in order to trick him into coming over. Then they do drugs together. He wants to have sex with Minnie and tells her Ricky "gave him permission" to fuck her whenever he wants. It didn't occur to either boy that she might not agree. She doesn't have sex with Arnie.- She and Kimmie go see their classmate Fred in a mental institution. Fred and Kimmie fuck and Kimmie warns Fred not to have sex with Minnie and asks Minnie not to have sex with Fred. But Minnie doesn't care. She really wants to fuck Fred. They fool around together, but don't have sex because the mental ward is too heavily monitored.- Monroe LOVES listening to her tell stories about all the guys she's fucked. It gets him off.- She starts doing drugs and more alcohol.- Kimmie wants Minnie to come to a motel with the black guy she babysits for so he can fuck both of them. He gives them drugs and alcohol. But they run away before he can have a threesome with them. Remember, he's married with two children.- Monroe hangs out shirtless with Minnie and Kimmie and says sleazoid shit about how pretty they are.- Kimmie starts having sex with another married man named Jay.- Her mom starts dating another man (in addition to Monroe). When that man is nice to Minnie, she thinks he's trying to fuck her. It's only later it occurs to her he might have been trying to be fatherly or big brotherly. She's been conditioned that any man who is nice to you wants sex.-"Jesus, you really like to fuck, don't you?" he said. His voice was slurry. "And what about that Kimmie? She really likes to fuck too, doesn't she? What am I going to do with you girls?"Monroe wants to add Minnie's bff to his underage stable. Not to mention he's still making eyes at the 13yo.- Monroe has sex with Minnie and Kimmie at the same time in a big threesome where they all fuck each other. He's so thrilled. He wants to fuck Minnie's other friend, who is a virgin, and he goes after her, but Minnie makes him leave her alone. He says that ever since he's fucked Kimmie and her at the same time he thinks he has a right to sexual access with all her friends.- Monroe still wants to fuck Minnie, but only 'allows' her to suck him off. He won't fuck her anymore. This makes her very sad, but no matter how much she begs for sex, he will only let her suck cock..."What dirty old man like me wouldn't give anything to be fucking a 15-year-old regularly?"...he asked me to suck him off. I asked him to fuck me and he said, "I thought you'd be satisfied with giving me a blowjob...I kept sobbing... he guided my head towards his lap and I sucked him off, choking and sobbing all the while. I wanted to make love, but after he came he just zipped it back up...- She gets stoned and has sex with John even though she "hates him" and "he's ugly and stupid."- She has sex with 24-year-old Robert who she met on a phone line.- Her 70-year-old male psychiatrist gives her a vibrator to use and makes her tell him about sex and is super-icky and inappropriate with her, but he doesn't rape her. Ethics mean nothing, no man can be trusted. He knows Monroe is 'having sex' with her and doesn't tell her mom or do anything to stop it.- Minnie goes out with Kimmie, they pretend they are whores and they pick up some men and fuck them. You know, for laughs. As one does.- Everyone has been really warning Minnie away from this lesbian, Tabatha, who she has been eyeing and who is eyeing her. She ignores them.- Monroe punches Minnie in the stomach.- A man tries to pull Minnie into a car at night so he can rape and kill her. He has a gun but she escapes.- Her (shitty) mom finds out Minnie and Monroe have been 'having sex' and demands they get married.- Tabatha takes Minnie to a house full of men. She gets Minnie high/passed-out and all the men rape her. As a reward, Tabatha gets a bottle of drugs. She immediately takes Minnie to another house, forces her to take crystal meth using needles, and then lets another guy rape her.- Minnie is a runaway and living with a gay man in a house where she feels safe because every man there is gay. She continues to use a lot of drugs.- Minnie keeps seeing and having sex with Tabatha even after the gangrape and forced drug use.- Minnie beats the shit out of Tabatha when she catches Tabatha making out with a 14-year-old girl. Then she knocks on a random door and spends the night with a "compassionate, horny black man" who has never seen her before in life. They sleep next to each other and she can feel his dick pressing into her but he doesn't rape her so I guess she feels like he's a good person.- Pascal (the ex-stepfather who raised her since age 4) says more creepy shit to her. She finally finds out he's been 'having sex' with her 16-year-old friend Elizabeth. She finally realizes he is a creepy pervert and cuts off all contact with him.- Minnie 'forces' her mother not to bring Monroe to the house anymore, but her mom still dates him and sleeps with him. I guess she didn't think it was a big deal that he was 'having sex' with her 15yo daughter.SO. Let's analyze.This is the sickest, most disgusting book I've ever read. And I've read a lot of disgusting shit. If you want to become celibate, this is a good way to start.There's only two "good" (read: not evil) people in the book: Chuck, Minnie's friend from school. He's a pothead skateboarder and even though he offers to be her boyfriend at one point, he never does anything creepy or sexual to her and always treats her kindly. As a result, she is convinced he's gay. Any male who doesn't want to rape her is gay. This is the result of her life experiences. However, Chuck is not a gay man and at the end of the book he and Minnie are still friends.The only other good person is Minnie's little sister, 13yo Gretel. However, Minnie's mom is still seeing Monroe and I can't help but think he'll try to rape Gretel sooner or later. I hope not. The mom is no protection for Gretel and I can't help but think she might be plunged into darkness the same way Minnie was.This book should be included in first-aid kits so that in case someone accidentally ingests poison, this book can be used to induce vomiting. Turn to any page and you will have the urge to vomit. You could also use it as an aid to help give up men. This book purports that no man is safe, none. Even a job in which ethics are important means nothing when you have the opportunity to fuck a 15-year-old. All men are perverts. All men have no morals. The younger the better, right? The only reason a man HASN'T fucked an underage girl is because he's afraid to be caught. Not because, say, he's attracted to grown women and not girls.This book will make you never want to have a daughter. And if you have a daughter and her father dies, you can never date a man again because he will absolutely, positively fuck your 13yo and 15yo daughters in your own house because, you know, men are scum and it's only natural that they'd want some young pussy. This book will make you pray and pray you only have sons.Now. You may think I'm against teenagers being sexual beings. Not at all. I know plenty of people who had first-time sex in high school. However, they had sex in loving relationships with boys roughly their own age. Not grown adult men.Men who want to have sex with 15-year-old girls are fucking perverts. FUCKING PERVERTS. Minnie has no quarter. She's not safe in her own home, the men her mom dates want to fuck her. Her mom's ex-husbands want to fuck her. Her psychiatrist wants to fuck her. Every man on the street she sees wants to fuck her. The men she babysits for want to fuck her. Married, has children, is single, is in a job where ethics are stressed - doesn't matter. All men have no morals and will sleep with any girl who is past the age of first-menstruation. This book is the Warren Jeffs school of thought - if it bleeds it leads. Any girl who has had her first period is "free game."And there's no women in here to protect Minnie. You'd think with the all-men-are-amoral-creeps line of thought, there'd be a woman who might look out for Minnie or be outraged at what is happening to her or take steps to protect her in some way. There isn't. There's only her mom and she's horrible. The lesbian Minnie meets sells Minnie to some gangrapists for drugs. Even though women aren't doing the actual raping in the book, they are just as big of creeps as the men in this world.You can only look out for yourself. There's no one who is going to help you or protect you or shield you. EDITED TO ADD: Shedoesfeel safe with her gay male friends. And her gay friend does offer her shelter when she's on the street. Chuck also is a man she's 'safe' with, although that only stretches to 'safe from him raping her' not 'he will protect her.'Even when Minnie KNOWS Monroe has designs on her younger sister, she doesn't do a damn thing about it. He never rapes Gretel in the book, but I'd be interested to see how Minnie would react to that. Unfortunately, I don't think she'd be outraged or disgusted or protective. Instead, I think she'd see it as 'natural' that Monroe would 'want some younger pussy' and probably think the 13yo is capable of making her own decisions.Okay, so even though this book is the most DISGUSTING thing I've ever read IN MY LIFE (considering what I've been reading lately that means a lot) - it's extremely well-written. Gloeckner has an amazing voice and you are exactly in a teenager's head. A smart, creative, fierce teenager's head. It's amazing writing. And since it's all based on Gloeckner's old diaries (you can read that it's pretty much word-for-word because she includes excerpts from her real diaries in the back), Gloeckner must be a pretty amazing person - smart and wildly creative.I feel so bad about what happened to her, though. And I know she doesn't want me to. She doesn't feel any pity for herself or any sadness about what happened to her as a young girl. But I can't help but weep when I think about everything that happened to her. I mean, it's fucking sick. It's about as sick as you can get without including sex with animals, sex with dead bodies, or sex with little girls who haven't hit puberty yet. I mean, we run through everything here: rape, gangrape, forced drug use, etc. etc. And this all takes place within a year's time to a 15-year-old.Tl;dr - Amazing writing. You are truly in the head of a smart and creative teenager who makes sometimes startlingly beautiful observations about the world. On the other hand, this book made me so sick to my stomach I couldn't keep anything down. And I called and canceled the date I had tonight with what could be a perfectly good guy. I just can't stomach looking at or thinking about a man right now, much less allow one to touch me and take me out. Good book to read if you are planning to become a nun, bad book to read if you have a daughter, niece, cousin, sister, granddaughter or any kind of young woman/girl whom you love in life. Might cause you to hate all men. Might cause you to avoid men. Might cause you to distrust men. HIGHLY TRIGGERING for anyone who has suffered rape and abuse.ONE STAR for content. The book is vomit-inducing. Constant vomiting, nonstop, no lulls. FIVE STARS for the writing, Gloeckner couldn't be smarter or more creative or more observant.