“What we do know is what’s most important: this prince’s reign will come to an end, one way or another.”This review is long, longer than what will probably be allowed on this website so click!!HERE!!for the link to my blog!First and foremost I’d like to say, if you haven’t read A Curse so Dark and Lonely, please go read that before reading this. Or click!!HERE!!if you’re interested in watching my review on that!I’m not holding back on spoilers for that book as there’s no way to explain what I hated about this without spoiling. There’s a lot about this book that truly got on my nerves and ruined the book for me, but there’s a tiny bit of good so I’ll go over it all. This review will contain ACSDAL spoilers only, you don’t have to worry about spoilers for this book.---OverviewThis book picks up a couple of months after the events and ending of A Curse so Dark and Lonely. And the story is told from Grey’s point of view, as well as a new character, Lia Mara. Grey is hiding, after finding out he’s the rightful heir to the Throne and that his blood is filled with magic. And Rhen is looking for him, not knowing Grey is the heir, but just wanting to find his friend. While at the same time Rhen is also sending out search parties to find this supposed heir to have him killed so Rhen can fully take the throne. Pretty much the entirety of this book is Grey trying to escape the clutches of Rhen and Rhen turning into a complete sack of shit.While on the other hand, we have Lia Mara who really is in this story for no important reason. I truly question why she has a point of view because she’s of no importance to the plot until the very end. But Lia Mara is from Syhl Shallow, the kingdom that tried to conquer Rhen’s lands in the first book. Anyways, her mother Karis Luran is trying to work out a deal to unite Syhl Shallow and Emberfall but Lia thinks she can do it a better way than her mother. So she tries to talk Rhen into better ways of finding peace, but in the meantime ends up meeting the true heir to the throne.This causes a lot of issues for Rhen, Lia, and Grey since they are all now inevitably tied up. You’re probably thinking at this point “Well what about Harper, she was the main character of ACSDAL?” Well, she is of no use in this book. Like she was just thrown to the side so Grey and Lia Mara and Rhen could take the shine. Harper is maybe in it a couple of times and even then she only has a few speaking lines. We don’t see much of her but when we do it’s obviously important, I still just think it’s a crime that she isn’t in it very much.So yeah, really this is 450 pages of Rhen trying to find Grey, Grey trying to evade Rhen, and Lia Mara trying to … bring peace to the Kingdoms I guess.My Issues w/ This Book (minus spoilers:)If I truly wanted to get into everything I hated about this book, you’d be reading this for hours so I’m just going to be talking about three things that gave me a huge headache.Number One: Give Rhen a Break.As everyone knows, Rhen is the troubled man from book one who was cursed into turning into a beast and who eventually killed his whole kingdom. He’s been through a lot, he’s broken as the title itself explains, but in this book, the author turns him into the villain. His whole mindset has changed, he’s vicious, and just it seemed to come out of nowhere. Now I can understand why he wants the heir dead. The dude has magic and is supposed to take over the only thing Rhen holds dear, his people and his throne. And Rhen’s life has been ruined and wrecked because of magic. The only thing that should change Rhen’s outlook is the fact that the rightful heir and his brother IS Grey. Which Rhen doesn’t know that of course, but there are some scenes in this book that I would never see ACSDAL Rhen doing. I could understand if his attitude got sour and evil over a SIGNIFICANT amount of time and at some point he’s willing to do whatever to kill this heir, but it’s only been a couple of months and homedude has completely changed. The MAIN reason I didn’t vibe with this at all, is because this is exactly what Sarah J. Maas did with Tamlin in the ACOTAR series. We have our main savior in book one (which both of their book ones were BATB retellings btw) and then he turned into a sadistic controlling crazy ass character. At this point, and by the end of this book, I just don’t care for Rhen anymore because his character completely changed with no real development and it’s incredibly unbelievable.Number Two: Where is the Colored Skin?I’m not usually one to care when a book is filled with white people, I’ve been reading books like that my entire life. The first author who always comes to mind is Sarah J. Maas. And as pretty much everyone knows, I am SJM TRASH. But you cannot tell me that in the years 2019/2020 there should still be YA books with all White Casts. Even SJM learned from her mistakes and started to realize OH there are people in this world with colored skin. If I had to read one more time about how a new character/guard/ruler/peasant had creamy white pale skin, I was going to gauge my eyes out. In ACSDAL there is one black character (Noah), a side character who shows up at the end to help out, and then he’s just on the sidelines. And Noah is in this book as well, but he is STILL the only PoC in this whole entire series. I personally saw Lia Mara as having brown skin but it’s hard to believe because her whole family had creamy pale skin. I’m so tired of having to read books in YA now that are only meant for white people, like please it’s not hard to give your characters some color. I think truly the thing that aggravated me the most was the fact that almost every characters skin was either creamy white or pale. Just like melted ice cream.When it comes to diversity, the main gay couple from ACSDAL is still in this book, a lot more than I expected. And there is mention of one sapphic couple at the end for a good half of a sentence. This is another reason that upset me so much is you have characters with disabilities, you have Queer characters, but wooo no ma'am on the People of Color.Number Three: No Such Thing as Development.I don’t even know how to say this nicely but who the hell proofread this and thought “wow yes this is much excellence, everything makes great sense, let’s start passing these ARC’s out.” Because there is so much in this that needed help. Okay so, I have taken into consideration that of course, this is the first batch of ARC’s to go out, there’s a lot of editing to do, but at the same time this doesn’t feel thought through at all. There is absolutely no reason this should have been as long as it was because there are so many filler scenes that are completely unnecessary. And okay, maybe those will be cut out and we’ll have a shorter book and BAM it will be better?! Wrong. Mainly due to the fact that the character development in this is nonexistent. As I’ve already said, Rhen turns evil but … there is no development and no explanation as to why he’s turned into such a douche. You have to piece it together yourself, which truly isn’t hard. But it also wouldn’t have been hard to weave in chapters from Rhens PoV so his Evil Arch could have been explained and believable. The same goes for Grey and Lia Mara. One second Grey is denying things about who he is and what he wants in life and then BAM all of a sudden he’s changed his mind out of nowhere and now this is the way his life must go. Like … what? And just WOO what was the point of Lia Mara being in this book besides the end because she could have had maybe 5 chapters but NO this whole entire thing is a trade-off between Grey and Lia. There are so many unimportant aspects to this story that completely ruined it for me and I couldn’t focus on the plot or the storyline because the lack of development and the lack of character growth is astounding. And dear Lord, don’t even get me started on the trash ass romance.Surprise I Enjoyed this A Little Bit Though:I did rate this three out of five stars though because there is some good. ACSDAL is one of my favorite books of 2019, which is why I was so fast and excited to pick up the sequel (shoutout to Lily over at Lair of Books for sending me her ARC.) So, of course, I love these characters, I love this world, and I have some love for this book. But it’s very minimal and it’s only the fact that I got to be in Grey’s head because I love him more than anything and it was great to see more of him. And even despite the fact that Rhen is trash and Harper is hardly in this book, it was still great to see them as well.I did end up reading the whole book in one night, which is why I didn’t give it a shit rating because Brigid’s books are so easy to blow through and I really wanted to keep reading the book because of how much I love being in Greys PoV. But I kept getting sidetracked over how annoyed I was with the lack of growth, the character changes, and the fully white cast.Anyways, there is an ease to Brigid’s writing that just pulls you in, the plot itself isn’t bad at all, I think this would have been an incredible book if character decisions made sense and if there was actual depth to the characters. So I will definitely be rereading this once the book is out and in the world because I want to see if anything has changed.---This review is incredibly early, the book doesn’t come out until January 7th, 2020. But I wanted to get my thoughts out into the world and not have to have this on my mind anymore.I will never advise anyone to not read a book because that’s just shitty, but I would definitely say if you loved ACSDAL a lot, there is a lot in this that you may not necessarily enjoy.But anyways this review has gone on way too long at this point, thank you for your time, and Happy Reading Folks.~ <3 Sol