It’s always a great feeling when you start a new series from an author whose work you loved and find out their storytelling skill in their first installment of a series has improved. Well done, Michael J. Sullivan.On my first read ofAge of Myth, I gave it a 3.5/5 stars rating. Five years later, today, I finished my reread of the book. Similar to my experience of rereadingThe Riyria Revelations, I lovedAge of Mythmore on my second read. Let me enlighten you a bit on why this reread worked so well. And to do this, I will have to compare my experience of readingAge of MythandThe Crown Conspiracy, the first book inThe Riyria Revelationsseries, and also my reread experience of them both.“If given a choice between a potentially great hardship and doing nothing, people gravitated toward what was most familiar and comfortable. That was why leadership was needed. To do what was necessary rather than what was easy.”The first time I readAge of Myth, I remember feeling somewhat disappointed again by it. Do not get me wrong,Age of Mythwas a good book, and it still is. I had a few issues with it, but overall, I enjoyed my reading experience. I cannot emphasize this enough, but when it comes to reading books by Michael J. Sullivan, knowing what you're getting into matters a lot in influencing my enjoyment. Even on my first read ofAge of Myth, I loved it more thanThe Crown Conspiracyalready. And one of the main reasons why this occurred was because I started the book with the right expectations compared to when I first started readingThe Riyria Revelations.I have talked about this plenty of times already. But back when I first startedTheft of Swords, everyone I knew told me something along the line of: "The Riyria Revelationsis the most epic fantasy series with the best bromance ever!" And I, at least on my first read, disagree with these notions. First, do not readThe Riyria Revelationsexpecting it will be an epic fantasy story with a grand scope likeA Song of Ice and FireorThe Stormlight Archive. I prefer callingThe Riyria Revelationsa high fantasy series rather than epic fantasy. I know they are interchangeable, but I feel like putting the word epic implies a series will have massively intricate world-building and war scenes.Second, although I agree that Royce and Hadrian have one of the best friendships in fantasy, especially after my second read, I initially had a lot of difficulties caring toward Royce as a character. I wish someone had told me I would understand and agree with the high praises only after I reached at least the second omnibus of the series. Long story short, I startedThe Riyria Revelationswith very high and wrong expectations. I was incredibly disappointed withThe Crown Conspiracyon my first read. I gave it 2/5 stars on my first read, but thankfully, it received an upgrade on my second read to 4/5 stars by starting it with the right expectations. However, enough about that, I’m not here to talk aboutThe Riyria Revelations. All you have to know is this. I dislikedTheft of Swordson my first read, loved it on my second read, and on both reading occasions of reading the series, I lovedHeir of Novronto death.“Fulfillment comes from striving to succeed, to survive by your own wits and strength. Such things make each of us who we are... You lose that in captivity, lose yourself, and that loss saps your capacity for joy. I think comfort can be a curse, an addiction that without warning or notice erodes hope. You know what I mean?... Live with it long enough and the prison stops being the walls or the guards. Instead, it’s the fear you can’t survive on your own, the belief you aren’t as capable, or as worthy, as others. I think everyone has the capacity to do great things, to rise above their everyday lives; they just need a little push now and then.”If you are new to Sullivan’s work, try to ignore some of the high praises, from myself included, towards Sullivan's books in your expectations of reading the first book of any of his series. From readingThe Riyria Revelations, you will understand why we love his books so much when you get to the end of the series. My reading and reread experience towardAge of Mythmainly improved because of that, and now I am making my way through this series, too, hoping I will reach that satisfying conclusion inAge of Empyre. Alright, onward to my review ofAge of Myth. Yes, I am indeed just getting started.Picture:Age of MythCover Art by Marc SimonettiIsn't that cover by Marc Simonetti just freaking gorgeous?Age of Mythis the first book out of six inThe Legends of the First Empireby Michael J. Sullivan. If I were to judge from the first book only, this series has the potential to be even better thanThe Riyria Revelations, but that is a difficult ordeal to hurdle. For those of you who don't know, Sullivan’s publishing method is a bit different from most traditionally published authors. He wrote the entire series first before releasing it periodically. Doing this means we do not have to be scared of his series not being completed, even if Sullivan gets teleported to another dimension. For more details on this, just read the author’s note at the end of the book, or you may ask Sullivan himself; he will be happy to tell you why in detail. This method, however, comes with a disadvantage. It may result in the first book of his series as the weakest out of the entire series, similar toThe Riyria Revelations. The wonderful thing from this, though, is if this series follows the same sense of progression in quality, then the last book inThe Legends of the First Empirewill become the best book of the series.“Power has a way of seducing by saying what you want to hear. Remember, it’s easier to believe an outlandish lie confirming what you suspect than the most obvious truth that denies it.The plot inAge of Mythbegins with Raithe, a Rhune (human), killing a Fhrey (Elf). Worshipped as Gods during this era, the Fhrey being killed off by a human means a great deal. This event sparks the flame of rebellion.Age of Mythrevolves around introducing the characters of the novel, and how the human gathered their army for the upcoming war against the Fhrey. There weren’t many crucial events happening in the first book. The plot was predictable, and one of the main villains in this book is pretty much a bear. That said, it somehow worked out well for the novel. The tone of the narrative is relatively light-hearted, and the pacing and the prose flow really well. I finished reading the book within two days. The novel was addictive to read despite the lack of big events. And I honestly felt this is all possible due to the likable characters and accessible prose. The themes of bravery and leadership were also executed magnificently.“People who lead don’t need to remind others who the leader is.”Personally, I have not found myself fully interested in Raithe yet. Thankfully, Sullivan’s trademark of writing lovable female characters immediately returned. To this day, Sullivan’s capability in writing realistic and compelling female characters without forcibly making them mega strong with swords or martial arts remains one of the best in the fantasy genre. It is one of the things I will always praise him for.Age of Mythshowed clear improvements in Sullivan’s characterization.The Riyria Revelationson my first read required four books to make me care about the characters; this time, Sullivan did it in one. Malcolm, Persephone, Suri, and Minna (a white wolf) were my favorite characters in the novel. I don’t know whether this is a coincidence or not, but the resemblance between Suri and Minna with Princess Mononoke is almost uncanny, which is a plus to me because I love that anime.Picture:Princess Mononokefanart by muju on deviantArtThe Legends of the First Empire, taking place thousands of years before Royce and Hadrian's story, is a dissection of the legends and lores told inThe Riyria Revelations. If you have readThe Riyria ChronicleorThe Riyria Revelations, you will find a lot of Easter Eggs in the series here. This is why, although technically you can start your journey into the world of Elan fromAge of Myth, I still think it would be better if you have readThe Riyria Revelationsfirst. There is nothing new in the world-building here. It’s a typical classic fantasy with dwarfs, elves, and many other elements that have been done for decades. Sullivan, however, made up for this lack of originality with these intersecting lore, histories, Easter Eggs, and characters. And in my opinion, Sullivan's prose has increased significantly in quality. Even on my first read, I was never bored reading through the book. It felt easy to read, simple, vivid, and yet highly addictive.“Fools believe silence is a void needing to be filled; the wise understand there’s no such thing as silence.”As for the issues I had withAge of Myth, I feel like the conflict ended too conveniently several times. For example, the climax sequence was a chapter full of battles, but it ended in two paragraphs after a particular character decided to join. Adding to the fact that the conflict was won easily, I do not think this character received more than a scratch throughout the book. Lastly, I may be nit-picky here, but I found some of the namings so out of place. I mean, there were some modern contemporary names like Sarah and Jason. This would be okay if everyone was named the same way, but it’s not. It took my immersion away every time these modern names were mentioned in the novel. Can you imagine if Legolas was named Kevin? Or Aragorn was named Jim? Frodo named Daniel? Exactly.“That’s what a good wife does, keeps your dreams alive even when you don’t believe anymore.”Overall, I truly enjoyed readingAge of Myth. The issues I had with it were too small to affect my reading enjoyment. It is a well-written and easy-to-read novel suitable for those who love reading classic fantasy or for new readers of adult fantasy. And remember, considering that this is only the first book out of six, and this series is written by Michael J. Sullivan, I have high hopes that the last book of the series will be the best installment.“What length will a mother go to on behalf of her child? How long is time? What is the depth of love?”You can order this book from:Blackwells (Free International shipping)You can findthisand the rest of my reviews atNovel Notions| I also have aBooktube channelSpecial thanks to my Patrons onPatreonfor giving me extra support towards my passion for reading and reviewing!My Patrons: Alfred, Andrew, Andrew W, Amanda, Annabeth, Diana, Dylan, Edward, Elias, Ellen, Ellis, Gary, Hamad, Helen, Jimmy Nutts, Joie, Luis, Lufi, Melinda, Meryl, Mike, Miracle, Nanette, Neeraja, Nicholas, Reno, Samuel, Sarah, Sarah, Scott, Shawna, Xero, Wendy, Wick, Zoe.