Elmerthe very young elephant is just that little bit different. He lives with a herd of elephants. They might be young or old, tall or short, fat or thin. In fact there are many variations in how they look. But they are all the same colour. All except Elmer. Elmer is quirky. He is most decidedly not the same colour as the other elephants.Elmer is a beautiful kaleidoscope of all sorts of colours. His body is a patchwork of yellow, orange, red, pink, purple, blue, green, black and white. His personality is also larger than life and matches his appearance. Elmer is cheerful, optimistic and sometimes very silly. He absolutely loves practical jokes.“If there was even a little smile, it was usually Elmer who started it.”But one night Elmer began to worry. He couldn’t sleep for thinking.“And the think that he was thinking was that he was tired of being different.”Why did he look so different from all the others. Was that why they were laughing at him? So, sadly, he crept away, determined to somehow cover himself with grey, so that he would blend in with the others.So he disguised himself, with the help of some berries, and it seemed to work! Nobody recognised him on his return, and even his friends greeted him politely, but rather distantly. Why were they all so serious, quiet and morose?“Elmer felt that something was wrong ... the more he looked at the serious, silent, still standing elephants, the more he wanted to laugh. Finally he could bear it no longer ...”When he did what only Elmer could have done, all the elephants became helpless with laughter too. They were overjoyed to have Elmer back in their midst again. And then the weather changed so that magically Elmer’s true colours were revealed. Everyone in the herd was so happy to have their popular prankster back that they decided to celebrate with a special day every year, On“Elmer’s Day”, every elephant would decorate themselves with unique and colourful patterns, and Elmer must decorate himself to look ... yes, you’ve guessed it!So every year, on the day of the parade,“if you happen to see an elephant ordinary elephant colour, you will know it must be Elmer.”The author ofElmer, David McKee, originally comes from South Devon, in England. He has produced mainly children’s books and animations, including several other series. Sometimes David McKee uses the pseudonym Violet Easton. He has illustrated books by other authors, such as some recent“Paddington Bear”books, and those by his wife, Violet McKee, and his son, Chuck McKee. The first book that he sold was of a story he had told at college,“Two Can Toucan”, which is also still in print.Elmeris an absolutely delightful picture book.“Elmer the Patchwork Elephant”by David McKee was originally published in 1968, and has been in print ever since. The current edition uses illustrations by the author from 1985. In this edition, the nameELMERis printed on the cover in shiny gold, reflective print.Elmerhas now featured in 34 books by David McKee, and the series has sold nearly 5 million copies in 40 languages around the world. It is as popular as ever. Serendipitously, just as all the elephants in this story celebrate“Elmer Day”at the end of the story, this year the publishers declared 28th May 2016, to be “Elmer Day”. Across Great Britain, libraries and bookshops have held Elmer-themed events. David McKee himself has producedElmerboard books, bath books, colouring books, an Elmer flap book, an Elmer hole-in-the-page book and an Elmer pop-up book. The character ofElmeralso stars in a children’s television series.From the start of this first story, the message is clear. Elmer is different, but he is accepted and valued just the way he is. He is unique and has a special talent to make everyone happy. When he alters his appearance and no longer looks like himself, he is ignored by his friends. He experiences what it feels like to be treated like an outcast, and to be ostracised by his old friends. In this book children may begin to think of the value of friendship and family, identity and diversity, as well as being true to oneself. When Elmer’s true colours are revealed, his friends are surprised and delighted. They much prefer his multicoloured and fun loving persona, and reassure Elmer that they love him because of his differences, and not in spite of them.The three year old next door loved this book as much as I did. He could quickly see the elephant shape on the cover, (although at first glance to me it looked like an abstract pattern). He was very keen to name all the colours he saw, and very keen too to spot and identify all the animals in the jungle scenes. It proved to be a real page-turner, with him squealing in delight at the big“BOO”in the middle of the book, and his insistence on turning the page at the end himself, to see all the highly decorated elephants on the last two pages. My little Turkish friend wanted to keep this one, to read over and over again, rather than to return it to the library.David McKee has a keen insight into what will appeal to little children, a lovely way with words, producing bold and attractive illustrations, and a story with a strong heart at its core. It doesn’t get any better than this.