4.5 stars"Before Legend, Tella had wanted nothing to do with love. She’d believed she was destined to only experience unrequited love. Then she’d fallen in love with him, and it had been like drinking magic—indescribable, all-consuming, and fantastically addictive.”“I choose you, Julian, and I promise I will always choose you, and I will always love you. I will love you with every bone in my body, so that even after my heart stops beating, a part of me will remain to forever love you.”i never expected to like this trilogy as much as i did. i am never getting over these characters and the world stephanie garber has built. this book absolutely delivered! it was a beautiful ending and it felt so painful to get through the book as it continued. i can definitely see how the writing has improved since the first book, caraval.the beginning was so intriguing. the problem i had with legendary was the fact that it was hard to get through the beginning but i liked the start of this one!! it had a bit of suspense added to it and I loved how it jumped right in. this book was everything from the execution to the plot!! it felt as though i wasn’t as bored with this book which i loved. this book made up for what the other books lacked (for the most part) from the mystery to the romance aspect! i think this book definitely helped balance out both of these factors while making it simultaneously interestingthe ratio between scarlett and tella chapters were so off. it was unfair how my girl scarlett didn’t get as many chapters as tella and they were so short!! i think that tella’s pov was more tolerable in this book than the others. however the ending did serve scarlett justice & i love her with my entire heart. she deserved so much more in this book after everything she went through. i think that she truly had character development towards the end. the beginning with scarlett was something that i wasn’t a big fan of simply bc of the way she changed and how they treated julian’s love as if it did not have real meaning.spoiler mentioned!in the beginning, every scene with the count i absolutely hated. he felt like an unneeded factor in the story between julian & scarlett. it was so sad to see how scarlett pretended to not love him anymore. i’m all for improvement but this felt like a step backwards for scarlett. i am so glad the count died when he did bc he gave me scarlettjulian back!! one thing i am in disbelief that they held off mentioning previously was the fact thatjulian wears glasses?!!?i literally fainted the moment i read that bc it made me love him more.more quotes to showcase my love for scarlett & julian <3“He smelled like dirt and tears and perfection. And she decided then that she was never, ever letting go of him. She wished there was a way to tether her heart to his, so that even when they were apart they would still be attached. There were things in this world to be truly afraid of, but loving Julian was not one of them.” 💞“I don’t need to prove anything,” said julian. “I’m not trying to win her hand. I’m offering her mine, and everything that comes with it, hoping she’ll take it and decides she wants to keep it.”“I’ve always been yours, crimson.”scarlettjulian’s reunion was my absolute favorite in this book.HE GOT A FREAKING TATTOO THE COLOR CRIMSON!! i was sobbing when i read this scene bc they hold such a special place in my heart it’s surreal. I couldn’t even see straight as i read bc of the tears streaming my cheeks at how much i loved them. i can go on and on abt how much i love them“She couldn’t bring herself to say the word mother. It hurt too much to cry out the way she had as a child and to hear no response. She’d vowed never to do it again.”spoiler for this quote!!“This had to be a mistake. She already had one murderous, power-hungry father. She didn’t deserve another one”the pain in this book was everything. it captured the characters emotions beautifully and i feel like it portrayed the thoughts and feelings so accurately from the grief they experienced to the way they described it!! i found myself crying multiple times throughout this book which is a rare occurrence. this book practically ruined me as i read it but i don’t regret it one bit. tella didn’t get on my nerves as much within this book and i think it’s true character development on her part.“His steady gaze held hers as if he had no intention of ever looking away—as if maybe he’d been telling the truth when he’d said that he wanted to keep her here forever.”“Julian might not have been perfect, but he was perfect for her sister”I ate upEVERYscene between all the characters. the romance within this book was absolutely impeccable!! it brought not only pain but it also brought sadness along with it. it felt like an emotional roller coaster throughout! one thing i found to be weird was how both legend AND jacks wanted to possess her? it felt as though she was an object rather than a human which was kinda sad to think about.spoiler alert from this point onokay so this book talked abt how the fates were hated but they were literally amazing?! it felt as if they were one friend group when they joined together to help save scarlett which i absolutely loved. the assassin was a dark character but he was lowkey funny?? not to mention the maiden death deserved so much better as a character. i swear every fate i read abt was amazing!! I was honestly sad to find out anissa betrayed scarlett but ultimately i still liked her as a character. PLUS the poison was such a good fate. despite him turning humans into stones, he was so charming from the beginning!!there’s something about grand death scenes within this book that i loved. stephanie did every single one of these characters justice!! they were written so amazingly, including the fallen star’s. it was so beautiful to see that scarlett didn’t need to be anyone but herself in order to convince him to turn human. not to mention the scene where tella stabbed jacks to break their bond ☹️ the writing was so meaningful and everything with each of these scenes.“He was an immortal who couldn’t die but who could never fully live, because the things he wanted to consume were devouring him instead.”i’m honestly so sad abt how tella and jacks’s story ended. the way i would’ve immediately chosen jacks over legend given the opportunity.. i thought they had amazing chemistry from the very beginning and even though i do love tella and legend, I feel like they ruined jacks’ character towards the end with each betrayal on top of another. my favorite scene between them was when he helped take her pain away bc it felt as though the tension was palpable. it was so well written!! i wish we got to know more abt the ending to tella & jacks’s story. still upset she chose someone who was so bland from the very beginning“She’d loved him as Dante, but she loved him even more as Legend. Dante had helped her forget, but Legend had taught her how to dream again, and she loved all the dazzling dreams they shared and the exquisite lies he told with his illusions. But she loved the imperfect truth of him just as much.”“He didn’t kiss her as if he’d simply just come back to life. He kissed her as if he’d died, been buried, and clawed his way out of the grave and through the dirt just to get to her.”“This is my choice, and I choose you, Donatella. I don’t need immortality. You’re my forever.”anyways, i still did like tella and legend together. it felt as though every scene they shared had so much more meaning than with tella and jacks. i am content with the ending but i truly wish we got more of them together. she was everything i wanted to be within this book. she was brave, and she had the ability to be selfless within this book. legend’s confession had me bawling bc i loved them so much after everything they’ve been through. it was honestly my favorite scene between them out of all the other ones within this book! towards the end, i was laughing through my tears when i read abt the letter she wrote to legend.the miscommunication with tella and legend felt repetitive. with every contemporary book i’ve witnessed, they all had repetition and miscommunication to drag on with the story. for this book, it was justified but it kinda felt annoying to be constantly reminded that legend didn’t love her. this was where i didn’t like their story as much bc they were also both stubborn.moving on to the flaws:okay so number 1 - the debt she owed to the vanished market? it was practically scraped, an incomplete idea with no ending. i found for there to be no purpose bc it was never mentioned after they interacted basically. number 2 - they brushed over legend’s identity? last book, they talked about scarlett having no idea who legend was and in this book they don’t even have this grand reveal. they played down his identity and it just gets ignored that he is legend. this book was just a little confusing with these factors added in. i honestly expected these things to be addressed but i was kinda disappointed they weren’t ??series review! `✦ ˑ ִֶ 𓂃⊹✩caravallegendaryspectacular