This novella for me is a revelation. It’s also a foreshadowing. It surprises me both in good and sad way. I’m very much vocal of my adoration towards Warner but I don’t have that much hate on Adam. I liked him just fine. The reason why I don’t prefer him is that he’s sort of bland. He doesn’t have much character and something’s telling me that he wasn’t the right guy for Juliette. ThenDestroy MeandUnravel Mecame that showed things that support my theory. ButFracture Me, ironically, which was told from Adam’s POV cemented it even more. I never would have guessed how fragile his feelings for Juliette were. I can’t even compare it to how he feels for James. Because if there’s only one person he needs to save, and between his little brother and woman she claimed he loved, I’m pretty sure, he—without a doubt—will save James. Don’t get me wrong, I admired his love for his brother but it just shows that she’s not his priority. He can even abandon her safety as long as the welfare of his brother is secured.(I think Adam earned some positive merit from me. He loves his brother and they have each other longer than he had Juliette. Of course, it is understandable that he wants his only family safety first. That doesn’t make his love for Juliette any less than what he really had for her. That’s actually the real question here: how much did he love her from the very start?)He doesn’t have a real inkling on what’s going on her mind. He doesn’t completely understand her and that’s why I think before that their relationship wouldn’t work. But what make it so unbearably sad is what Adam really thought of her—a weakling. I don’t entirely think of his words as insult (although it does sound kinda like it) but to describe a person in such negative context made me question his already questionable intentions. What he thought of her is the EXACT opposite of what Warner thinks of Juliette. He always pushes her forward, to embrace her potential, to make her understand that she is indeed strong. Whereas Adam wanted to baby Juliette, he even thinks that she’s going to weigh them down. I didn’t expect him to feel that way for Juliette, but it is without a shadow of doubt, true.In fact, I even saw more sincerity on Kenji. He was the one who was hell-bent on saving Juliette. He even blamed himself to what has happened. He’s the one reminding Adam that he should be worried, but no, he wanted to seize the momentarily peace they have and not stifle James safety unnecessarily. Now, tell me why should Juliette end up with Adam? Because I don’t see a single thing that will save his face with this revelation. Not even with the things he did in the first two books.It’s foreshadowing, that I can tell you. I don’t even need an image of Warner kissing Juliette (although will greatly appreciate) shoved to my face to know that they will be the end game. This novella pretty much solidified that. I have so much to say about their relationship but I’m saving it on my manifesto I’m writing for them (for myProject Sixty-Twoentry). But this novella definitely gave me the assurance I need.The story was bit shorter. It did bridge the gap between book 2 and 3. It wasn’t as personal asDestroy Me, and the one significant thing I learned from Adam is that he loves his brother so much. But also we got to know how things had happened prior to the opening chapter ofIgnite Me. And by the looks of it, it promises amazing things to come. Yes, Juliette, remove those gloves, and go all out. I’m ending this review with my favorite quote fromIgnite Me:“If there were even the slightest chance I could spare you this pain,”he finally says, “I would’ve taken it. You must know I wouldn’t have said it if it weren’t absolutely true.” — WarnerI’m so,soready. I’m impatiently waiting here, and I have the feeling the wait will definitely pay off.4.5/5See original post here @Aeropapers****Post-Reading Comment:Let me clarify my rating first.This doesn’t have anything to do with Adam. And from the looks of it, it just cemented the reason why Warner and Juliette should be together. Actually, it solidify the end game here. Their understanding of the girl is contrasting, like night and day. It also showed who Adam main priority is; in a way told us who the most important person in his life is. And it ain't Juliette (not even himself). I was really surprised on how things went down in here. I didn’t expect Adam to be this callous and violent than necessary, or from what I know of him.I have tons to say but let me process all these thoughts in my head properly(it's wee hours of the night here). Adam gave me something to think about. Expect a lengthy review later.****See, I care for you Adam. I even changed the title, added the synopsis of your novella, and I even uploaded the cover. (11/03) Why so broken Adam? ;)****Adam fans, this one's for all of you! ;) I'll still be reading you though. Don't worry. ;)Is it too much to ask for another Warner Novella? Is it? *bribes mafi with cakes & cookies*I'm just gonna sit here patiently and wait for Ignite Me! Warneeeer!!!