**Winner of the 2024 Goodreads Choice Award for YA Fantasy**‘Perhaps we make our own magic with words,’ writes Rebecca Ross in a novel that shows the power of words to be a bright beacon that can push back even the darkness of a world ripped apart by warring gods and enchantments. A magic spell usually requires reciting an incantation and while we seal a marriage with a kiss the spoken vows are what unites us. Words are the closest thing to magic we have in this life andRuthless Vows, the second and concluding volume of Ross’ Letters of Enchantment series certainly champions the written word as a force of hope, courage, or even ‘a shield to protect me.’ Jumping in just days after the shocking conclusion toDivine Rivals,Ruthless Vowsbrings us a story of the strength, sorrow, sacrifice but also of love that can ‘burn with splendor’ and might be enough to bring an end to a vicious war writ large by divine forces, or are the immortal powers too great to contend with?Ruthless Vowsis an emotional labyrinth of twists and touching character development that effectively reverses the roles in its predecessor novel and guides it towards a shocking yet satisfying conclusion. This is a love story built on language as much as it is a love letter to language and it filled my heart with bliss to read this lovely second half of an epic adventure.‘The sun would continue setting and rising , the moon would persist in waxing and waning , the seasons would bloom and molt , and the war would still rage until one god or both fell to their grave.’Admittedly, I foundDivine Rivalsto be a stronger novel if we take each separately in their own context, thoughRuthless Vowsdoes bring a great conclusion to this tale while still leaving just enough to speculation to give our minds a reason to continue wrestling with these stories as if in perpetuity. It is once again framed around the charming and heartfelt romance between Iris and Kitt who’s ‘souls weren’t mirrors but complements, constellations that burned side by side’ that gives us a marvelously strong emotional handhold to weather the tumult and turmoil of the war raging across the narrative. Their love story is beautiful and pure and you can’t ask for a better pair of characters to root for. Especially when they deliver tender lines such as:‘May your hand be in mine, by sun and by night. Let our breaths twine and our blood become one, until our bones return to dust.’Essentially these books are two people thinking “wow the way you write stirs me into the blossoming of love” which is pretty charming and they fall for the mannerisms of the mind before they even know the poetry of the body. I love the union of language to be a bond that transcends the physical, and enjoy the beauty of the ideas ‘I would love to see your words catch fire with mine.’. But the language of love and epistolary romance is what drives this book and this is a book ‘for anyone who sought a different realm through a wardrobe door,’ as Ross writes, a book for those ‘who wrote a letter and is still waiting for a reply, Or who dreams of stories and bleeds words.’ Which is always something I can root for. Especially coupled with the framing that it is their words reaching out across space and time ‘that your words found me here, even in the darkness,’ and become an emotional compass to guide one another through the hardest moments. As if it was meant to be, cosmically ordained and bestowed upon them through their shared love of making the world more beautiful one perfect phrase after another. A feat they can only accomplish together. ‘[H]is best words emerged,’ Roman realizes, ‘when he was with her.’‘was only thinking how strange it is. To think how many people we cross paths with in our lives. How someone like me has found someone like you.’What logophile wouldn’t swoon, as many did in the first volume. And Here, however, the roles are reversed with Kitt uncertain who is writing to him—Iris using her middle name was a nice touch as it recalled Roman’s use of Carver but also fit her need for secrecy as this is war and loose lips sink ships as they say—and it manages to keep the romantic tension high without feeling recycled either as the dramatic events keep rolling in.‘Did you think I would let him steal this last moment from me? When I surrender only to you, take you in my hands and burn with you before the end comes?’WhileDivine Rivalswas more slow-burn character development,Ruthless Vowsreally hits the ground running through a more plot-driven narrative that is, admittedly, still sort of a slow-burn. Personally I prefer the interpersonal dramas over the war drama but this does drive towards a rather satisfying conclusion that pulls all the small threads from the first book into a brilliant and dynamic full picture. The book plays with a lot of dualities that really make the plot sing too, with Forrest and Kitt’s “condition” due to Dacre’s magic (no spoilers but the uneasiness about Forrest lends an uneasiness about Kitt that reminded me a bit of Peeta fromMockingjay), but also the duality of relationships like Iris/Roman, Forrest/Sarah or Attie/Tobias juxtaposed with the fallout from Dacre/Enva makes the reader contemplate how each is better together but always at the risk of collapse or tragedy.‘Keep writing. You will find the words you need to share. They are already within you, even in the shadows, hiding like jewels.’That duality extends further into the craft of the duology itself. You can’t have one without the other, which is why the novels hinge at such a cliff-hanger moment. You have to combine them for them to make their magic, like ingredients in a potion, like Roman and Iris. It is also perhaps why Iris seems the strongest character in the first and we stretch out in her head a bit more whereas in this volume it is more Roman’s struggle in his captive state and emotional turbulence to keep aloft.And, as this is a war novel, sacrifices will unfortunately befall our merry band of lovers. Though this also gives a necessary weight to the story and all the twists and tragedies make the pay-off land with a greater blow as Ross reminds us that war always comes at an all too great of cost. ‘I see the beauty in what has been but only because I have tasted both sorrow and joy in equal measures’ is a line just as applicable to the experience of reading this series. Ideally one should think of this as the second half of a story rather than a sequel and I’d be curious how this book would read if it were bound as one full volume. That said I think taking a bit of a break between them was beneficial for my own reading habits and I didn’t find this one quite as engaging so I took forever to read it, but it almost feels more like, say, how the recent Dune films are just two parts to a continuous story not a sequel. But I did like how this fleshed out the world, especially the magic realms. Though I also wish this had a map of Cambria. Who doesn’t love a good fantasy world map. Maps even come up. A lot.‘Tuck my words into your pocket. Let them be your armor.’For those who found the world building a bit flat in the first, rest assured a lot of the little ideas that pop up get much more grounding here. The enchanted buildings, for instance, play a larger role in this novel and have a rather well-executed explanation that makes sense to have saved until later. But as we get more detail about what we already know, we also discover the world is much more vast and layered than we initially thought as well. An intricate magic system around how the gods function and move about the works is unveiled and it threatens the Cambria as the characters know it as much as if reorders the readers own understanding of it.‘I would betray you a thousandfold for her.’While this is more a personal preference than a criticism, I did like the gods more when they were offstage and still potentially more metaphor than physical presence. Or even a halfway point may have been preferred, something like a Sauron that is menacing and omnipresent without having to interact much. Once we have Dacre moving through the text it was nice to have him humanzied but it also reduced his menace, sort of how Randall Flagg is more menacing as an idea than a character with flaws, foibles and finicky temperament in King’sThe Stand. Also Enva was cool but it was almost too little and too late with her character compared to Dacre. I did, however, really enjoy the way she shifts the closure of the story in ways that don’t need a sequel, though a prequel would be welcomed. Better yet short stories about the gods, who we learn more of but only get half histories. The overall ending was mostly satisfying if a bit predictable and aiming more for a happy ending instead of an emotional impact with a message, but it still managed to pull off both for the most part.‘I look forward to the next chapter. The one you will write in your story, as well as the one we write together.’Overall, I found the Letters of Enchantment duology to be a delightful time full of magic and marvel where the charming romance truly carried the weight brilliantly.Ruthless Vowsgets into some pretty intense territory with war crimes and and the fallout of choosing sides (Kitt’s story also enters some pretty gritty aspects of being caught between a rock and a hard place that has echoes ofKurt Vonnegut’s undercover broadcaster inMother Night). There’s some gripping tales of betrayal and cloak and dagger maneuvers as a war rages on and information is worth more than gold. I greatly enjoyed the importance of language too and how Ross shows the importance of journalism in framing conflict and how this can quickly be weaponized into propaganda. But most of all, I loved the love story that burns brightly in all the darkness. A fantastic read that is greater than the sum of its two parts, a moving story, and one I won’t soon forget.3.5/5‘Write me a story where there is no ending, kitt. write to me and fill my empty spaces.’