“After nourishment, shelter and companionship, stories are the thing we need most in the world.”― Philip PullmanI tried reading Northern Lights as a child when it was enthusiastically recommended to me by librarian knowing I adore fantasy, but I didn't connect to it then and I can't remember ever finishing the trilogy. As an adult in stressful times looking for a comforting winter fantasy read, I decided to revisit this classic of the genre, and this time I liked it immensely, so much it got me out of my reading slump. This is a book that reminds you why you love reading. Pullman is a tremendously talented writer and storyteller. The flow and plot of the novel are unique, creative, and massively engaging. There is not one moment of boredom in the whole novel, it is action-packed, but most thoughtfully, creating one magical story, one that you cannot easily forget.This book also got me interested in Philip Pullman as a person, as well as his worldview, philosophy and perspective on spirituality and religion. What we see in this novel is an inversion of moral values. The Church is very important in the world of Dark Materials, it is the force that controls society and patrols the matter of reason, science, and development, in a really negative way. Science is also painted as negative, the discipline that makes innocent suffer in order to achieve progress. Religion and science do not have good connotations, and the true morals and correct way of being have to be discovered and found by and in individuals. Our protagonist Lyra, is opposing the overruling forces of society, assisted by outlaws on the margins of society as Iorek, witches and sailors Gyptians. The book grapples with many profound questions and the intricate relationship of philosophy, science and religion. It criticizes authoritarianism, and religious authority, which leaves little room for dissent or pluralism of views, and diminishes the freedom of the individual to discover personal and unique standpoint. Lyra's parents are also villains, and the positive foundation, usually found in the figures of authority (kings, priests, headmasters and parents) is absent. It is evident that Pullman has strong distrust in the figures of authority, at least ones that don’t allow any scope for argument or dissent.Without any solid foundations, trust, or stability of authority figures, our protagonist is not able to create the inner compass of detecting right or wrong, the conscience or the superego, as everybody who ought to be good in her world is deceptive, and those who ought to be evil are good. The moral inversion is present - the evil does not come from outside, from monsters, but from the inside, society and figures of authority, those who claim to be righteous, and the help and salvation come from the outside, ones that are found the be useless or undesirable by the majority. Lyra, therefore, has a magical compass - an extension of ego, an item representing only stability, that helps her to find the right perspective, the truth that is so hard to grasp in this confusing world. Lyra's special power is to see value in things and those who seem to be invaluable, and also, to expose the deceitfulness of those who claim to be good, but are evil, being a trickster character, driven by curiosity and critical intelligence.The concept of dæmon is also brilliant. Dæmons are animals that are an external physical manifestation of a person's "inner-self", with changing appearance in children and fixed appearance in adults, a brilliant literary tool for exploring characters naturally within the text. Animals that help and follow their hero companions are an ancient concept seen in myths and fairy tales. Animals often solve quests that heroes are not capable of resolving themselves, representing the primitive instincts, animal urges and primal energy of the psyche put in the useful concrete function. Also, the choice of words for these accompanying animals in Pullman world is interesting and was off-putting for me as a child, obviously alluding to the word demon that usually has a negative connotation of spiritual destructive evil forces, but here represents the person soul. In the name Pullman is consistent with his moral inversion that is present thorough his world-building. Similarly, the word Gyptians also alludes to Gypsies, folk that often symbolically represents human shadow in stories, people in which civilized society projects the repressed traits. Gyptians are outcasts and the positive figures that enable Lyra to progress in her quest. Also, Lyra, in order to succeed, has to use lies, distort reality, and even use truth as a deception to reach the goals, not a usual thing for heroin to use for victory, as these traits are usually utilised by villains. Determinism and free will are also touched upon interestingly, as Lyra has a fixed destiny, that can only be achieved if she is not aware of it, and thinks she is making free choices.“We are all subject to the fates. But we must act as if we are not, or die of despair.”Pullman critiqued Tokien's and C.S. Lewis's works, oftentimes unjustly, due to their Christian beliefs that left more or less subtle marks on their world and characters. They are my favorite writers, one of the most influential ones in my reading life, and I like the classical fantasy story of a hero fighting dark forces and monsters, one where the good and evil are much more split and well defined, put in the more predictable categories than in Pullman world. I think that a fantasy writer's worldview has a massive impact on the kind of world he is creating. For instance, I could not connect to R.R. Martin's writing, because I could not find a sense of meaning in his storylines, his world being saturated with nihilism and random suffering, without a clear vision or moral lesson, or a metaphor of psychological development that more classic hero story has, all things I quite like in fantasy genre. For exploring absurdism and nihilism I prefer literary fiction and stories put in reality, not in the imaginative world. But with years I found I like morally gray characters as in Abercrombie's writing and made space for the imaginative world of unordinary Pullman. Pullman is not a king of nihilism, but fantasy moral inversion as good and evil in his world are unpredictable and unordinary, as they oftentimes in life are. It is often said that he created an atheistic world, but I think that is a far too simplistic way of thinking. R.R.Martin created atheistic, but Pullman created a gnostic world, and some call Dark Materials as a retelling of Milton's Paradise Lost. Pullman beliefs in multiple worlds and spiritual realms, not a binary good and evil model. Pullman is passionate to reinvent and redefine, asking provocative questions and exposing hypocrisy, the trickster of the fantasy genre.The classical white and black world is maybe more suitable to the child due to the fact that children are not completely able to integrate good and evil traits into one object, so the negative traits of mothers are more easily comprehended expressed in evil witches or a dragon. But, adults should be aware that a fixed unexamined worldview of good and evil figures is harmful and that oftentimes the things are not as they seem. In Nietzsche's notion, in adulthood, a person is called to reexamine and discard the integrated false and destructive beliefs of their parents, authority figures, and society, the ones that are a threat to integrity, authenticity and individuality, that were advertised as useful and good. And that is why I salute Pullman, this intelligent genre provocateur that exposes what happens when people dogmatically follow abstractions.That being said, the person has to be smart in the process and not discard the parts of tradition and integrated beliefs that are useful and valuable. That is my only critique of Pullman, that he could become far more reductionistic and discard something as complex as human religion or authoritative figures and characterize them as completely wrong. There is a phase in psychotherapy when a person becomes aware of the negative traits of their parents and completely demonizes them. But, that is only a stop in the journey, not a destination. As always, maturity lies in tolerating the ambiguity of one object, being aware of its both good and bad traits, discarding the bad, and keeping the good. There lies a profound balance of life.“We don’t need a list of rights and wrongs, tables of dos and don’ts: we need books, time, and silence. Thou shalt not is soon forgotten, but Once upon a time lasts forever.”― Philip Pullman