Back when I was five years old, I never wanted summer to end. I wish my grandma had read this book to me before she took me to school on my first day to make me feel better. My best friend’s mother recommended this book to me as one she used to read to her own children and the message within the storyline continues to resonate around her entire family.Audrey Penn’s ‘The Kissing Hand’ deals with the issue of separation anxiety many children face when starting school as this is often the first and longest separation they have experienced from their parents or primary caregivers.Chester Raccoon begs Mrs. Raccoon to let him stay at home and play. In an attempt to comfort him, Mrs. Raccoon assures Chester that although the idea of a new school may be scary, there will be plenty of new things he will love there once he settles in. She shares a family secret by kissing his hand and wrapping his fingers around it, explaining that every time he feels lonely or far away from home, he could hold his hand to his cheek, knowing that his mother’s love was with him wherever he went. Outside the school gates on the first day (or night, in this case) Chester returns the same gesture to his mother, showing her that the kissing hand works both ways, since sometimes even adults need the same reassurance.Before publication in 1993, Audrey Penn had already read this story to many children in schools, libraries and children’s hospitals. By assigning animals the roles of the main characters, Penn is using anthropomorphism to personify the raccoon family with human characteristics, a strong literary device that particularly engages the attention of young children, but readers of any age could appreciate the central relationship in focus.Mrs. Raccoon and the family unit could be substituted for any significant person in the reader’s life, relating back to educational theorists such as John Bowlby’s idea of a secure base that leads to independence and Mary Ainsworth’s attachment types. With this in mind, the story can be adapted into any situation or relationship as a coping strategy to deal with change. For example, a child entering foster care, dealing with a parent away serving in the military, a death in the family, moving away from friends and loved ones or a even adoption.Vibrant watercolour illustrations by Ruth E. Harper and Nancy M. Leak accentuate the story, depicting the traditional autumn back to school season and the raccoon’s nocturnal habitat. Based on Penn’s own observation of animal behaviour, this book can be used as a cross-curricular starting point to explore the natural habitats and behaviour of other nocturnal animals. In the classroom, children between the ages of four to six can interpret their own meaning from the story and paint their own handprints in art activities, or listen to the book as an aid in the transition period between the Early Years and Key Stage one.They say never judge a book by it’s cover, but a great writer is able to appeal to many different audiences. Penn achieves this with her sensitive handling of a delicate subject that affects every young person at some stage, which explains the popularity of this New York Times #1 bestseller . Including the ASL sign for ‘I love you’ on the final page allows the universal moral of the story to be understood by everyone.