Weird d1cks & Victorian monsters. Marry me.Also hardcore crossing my fingers that my boyfriend never actually sees this review.My bookishly nerdy, English major heart has always had a special love for Victorian monsters in all shapes and forms, so I was 200% into this idea. Plus, I love when authors can take a base of something and make it their own- whether it be creature, trope, or historical period- and Moon has done exactly that.She grabbed the monsters that most only ever read about thanks to their high school syllabus or in the unpopular corners of Victorian literature classes and made them fun, funny, and definitely f*ckable.A Lady of Rooksgrave Manoralso did one other impossible thing: I have been broken of my dislike for the name Esther.No longer do I picture some white-haired grandma digging lint-covered candy out of her purse (though those grandmas can also be totally fabulous). Instead, I've got Moon's Esther who is this unashamedly sensual, kind-hearted, and just likable "lady of the evening," and I'm totally okay with this. I think she holds her own against Moon's other leading ladies and makes a good impression, which is nice to see since even though we'll be revisiting the Rooksgrave world, I don't believe we're going to be back in Esther's boudoir. We get to know Esther well enough to want her happiness, and that's enough to keep me hooked in.Now, the other 50% of the reason that people chase after Moon's RH books: the men. Or in this case, the monsters. As per usual, I'm having a real hard time here. Can I pick a favorite? I mean, sure, if I must, but I actually like them all- our invisible man, the sphinx, the vampire, the Jekyll/Hyde doctor, the gollem/twist on Frankenstein. They've all got something alluring about them, whether it's major alpha tendencies, a little vulnerable insecurity, cockiness, or that slow and steady supportive type. I feel a little bit like I'm back in the 90s playing Pokemon when I read Moon's books. I just gotta ship them all.WithA Lady of Rooksgrave Manor, we've got oodles of smut. Especially with switching from Bryony, an FMC who had to grow into her sexuality, to Esther, who's just such a lovable little harlot (no shame), prepare yourself for someAGGRESSIVEsocial distancing so others can't read over your shoulder. We've got org*sm denial, hooks, threesomes, moresomes, voyeurism, exhibitionism, and I'm sure other isms that'll make you red in the face if your priest catches you reading this book. In short, there's a kink for everyone!A Lady of Rooksgrave Manoris the s3xual equivalent of one size fits all.I'm a bit in love with this world. My only disappointment is that I have a hard time letting go of characters, so the greedy part of me wants to come back to this world, but it wants to come back and live it through Esther and her men. However, that's a me thing, not an anti-Moon thing. Though we do have an unresolved villain situation at the end ofA Lady of Rooksgrave Manor, we get some closure on the character and relationship development with Esther and her men. Everyone has the chance to show some growth in how they see themselves, their desires, or how they fit into their monstrously adorable family. They get enough of a fitting HEA, and there's enough flexibility in how Moon rounded out the story that it would feel quite natural if we ran into these characters again even if it's not their story. And I hope we will!#MonstersDoItBetter