🌶️: 1.5 (the main character scenes only)Dark, MC romance. Friends to enemies to lovers. OW drama. TW: childhood SA, FMC SA.This story follows Perrie and Acid (Oliver), which is the road name for our MMC. They initially meet as teenagers when the MMC comes to the FMC‘s father‘s gym to start boxing. He’s dealing with a horrific home life, where he is subjected to all sorts of traumas which play a huge role in how his relationship with the FMC develops. When the FMC‘s father passes away shortly after they meet, this single-handedly starts her spiral down.Her father taught her to fight, so she does some illegal fighting to make money, and after a fight one evening, she ends up assaulted, which was her first time, so that is stolen from her and it’s pretty brutal. The people who assaulted her do end up getting their comeuppance, which was good to read about.I am really torn about this book. First off, it dragged and repetitive. We learn of the MMCs trauma yet he says repeatedly in the book how he’s filthy and not worthy of the FMC. After the tenth time I’m pretty sure we get it.Not sure what’s going on with this author, but she’s been writing her FMC’s as absolute cry babies lately and it’s making me so frustrated. This FMC was strong from the perspective of being able to fight and defend herself for the most part. And her revenge on her grapists was great. But the always crying was just too much. Plus the scenes with BBS were just not enjoyable.There were also a lot of gaps in transitional scenes. For example, the character is in one place and the next they are somewhere else but there was nothing to let us know the scene was changing. It definitely left me confused at times and took a minute to catch up that we were somewhere else with the story.I also don’t remember this author, putting so much detail about other couples in her stories. Like it’s clear that Steal is going to get his own book, but we already found out so much about him and Cass. I wish she would’ve just kept some of that back.I don’t recommend this book. It did have a nice amount of other women drama, albeit predictable. There were a couple of other things that happened that I wasn’t expecting which I guess was good. But I almost DNF’d it at 65%, but decided to finish it by skimming very quickly through the rest which was the right decision. There just simply wasn’t enough good in this book for it to overshadow the parts of it that I just didn’t enjoy.