2.25/5 starsDon't be the girl who goes to college with a boyfriend.I must have read an entirely different series than everyone else.I must have. It’s the only reasonable explanation.I always see reviews stating that these books are so cute and relatable? They leave me befuddled because I find them to be neither. Cute? No. Relatable? No. Annoying? Yes. Unnecessary? Yes.Me, when this book was over:Why did I even pick this up? Curse you adorable covers. I have always known you were my kryptoniteLuckily, I buddy read this with the amazingScrill!!!!!!who, somehow, read the same book that I did and had similar thoughts and feelings. Thanks Scrill. I’m glad you didn’t leave me alone in this.What I wanted to happen in this book:1. Lara Jean to grow up and start acting her age.What didn't happen in this book:1. Lara Jean growing up and acting her age.How old was she even suppose to be? Because I'm not buying this 17/18 year old thing. She's passable at twelve.Was I suppose to like Lara Jean? I literally couldn't care less about anything that happened to her. She's just so immature and naive for her age. It would be one thing if she started out like that in the beginning of the series and did an entire 360 and was this strong, independent women at the end. But she wasn't, of course. She was still naive Lara Jean, the most consistent character I have had to read about. Every time she had any piece of dialogue, my eyes rolled so far to the back of my head that they might as well bought a vacation house there.I wish I tagged this book as I read so I'd have more receipts. #regertsI think couples costumes might be my favorite part of being in a couple. Besides the kissing, and the free rides, and Peter himself.What about the being with someone who fully understands you and who you are able to connect with? Who will support you and be with you no matter what? There's more to a relationship then couple costumes, kissing, and free rides. Or is that too much to ask for from a twelve-year-old?Also, in case you were wondering what Lara Jean's day is like. Step-by-step. Not even the littlest of details missing, then this is the book for you. Because she will tell you everything that happens to her. Important to the story or not. Usually the latter.I'm the cook. When we first got to the house, we went and did a big shopping trip and bought cold cuts, granola, dried pasta and jars of sauce, salsa, cereal. The one thing we didn't buy was toilet paper, which we ran out of on the second day. Every time we leave the house to eat lunch or dinner out, one of us steals a wad of toilet paper from the restaurant bathroom. Why we don't just go buy more, I don't know, but it turned into kind of a game. Chris is the clear winner, because she managed to get an economy-sized roll out of the dispenser, and she smuggled it out under her shirt.Like I guess that's supposed to be funny? But after almost 300 pages of unnecessary detail, the last thing I possibly care about was if Lara Jean had toilet paper or not. I didn't care. I still don't care.Also, was I suppose to care about LJ and Peter's relationship? Was I suppose to root for them to stay together?Because the only salvageable part of this entire book was towards the end and they predictably broke up. When that happened I was pretty much likeIf you are a fan of classic movies, much like I am, then you'll remember in one of the most iconic musical of all time,High School Musical 3, when Gabriella broke up with Troy's sorry ass because she realized that her education at Stanford was more important than any relationship.If you don't remember, here's a link to the heartbreaking, but totally realistic sceneSomeone please have a movie marathon with Lara Jean and show her that entire movie like three times. She really needs to see it and learn that PETER IS NOT MORE IMPORTANT THAN GETTING A GOOD EDUCATION.Honestly this entire book I was just hoping Lara Jean would pull a Gabriella and dump Peter and go live her life boyfriend-free. Just walk away, girl. You deserve better than that asshole.Honestly, Lara Jean and Peter have nothing in common at all.Unlike Troy and Gabriella, who were both insanely attractive people who could sing like angels. What did they even talk about? None of the conversations they ever had in this book were ever actually meaningful.Then there's Kitty who so impossibly annoying. She's what eleven? I don't think she's ever been told her entire life the word "no." There are scenes where she's up past midnight and no one even gets mad at her. Or she says the meanest things ever and barely gets a negative reaction. Then she's told she can't come to a bachelorette party BECAUSE SHE'S ELEVEN so she sneaks her way into the bachelor party. Just no Kitty. Go back to playing with your dogwho's non-existent this entire book.I would talk about how ridiculous the plot of this book is except there is no plot.None.At all.Everytime a conflict comes up it gets solved by the next page.Literally I fell asleep reading this book about 7 times and that's not an exaggeration.I mean if you like this book. That's cool. I'm glad you did. But I'm gonna go back to readingMorgan Matsoncontemporary books. I think I'm done with Jenny Han. She just isn't for me.