because the author didn’t even deem to write tw because it would “spoil” her book (does she actually think she can use pedophilia as some goddamn plot twist??) here you go: child abuse/molestation, especially chapter 22 which describes it in explicit detail.a summary of this entire book: yikes. MASSIVE YIKES. this will contain spoilers because i’ve got some receipts and i’m gonna gladly rant about the garbage fire that was angry god.one of my main issues with angry god wasthe lack of development in vaughn and lenora’s relationship.70% of the book was spent vaughn being an asshole to her for no reason whatsoever, there’s legit 0 reason why he would hate her, NONE, NINGUNA! and then suddenly he realizes he actually loves her and that all of his terrible actions towards her were actually done because of his love for her. that’s some fucked up shit if i do say so myself.another issue wasvaughn’s character.i did not care about him. i did not like the way he trated every single person like trash when they had done nothing to him, he even said some awful shit to knight, his supposedly best friend. i just couldn’t care less about the hero in this book. and the fact that all of his actions get somehow excused because of what happened to him as a kid is bullshit. was what happened to vaugh when he was a kid horrible? yes. do people handle with trauma in different ways? yes, but that doesn’t excuse you being a dick to literally everyone. he needed a lot of therapy and the fact that everything gets brushed under the carpet, even after his parents find out what happened to him, was disgusting. this is what vicious tells emilia after she finds out their son was sexually abused when he was a kid:“the best thing we can do for him is prentend it never happened, that you still don’t know”because that’s the sure way to deal with trauma, PRETEND IT NEVER HAPPENED! your trauma will be gone and everything will be grand wohoo! like i said, their son needed professional help, not pretending nothing ever happened to him.Going back to why i hated the hero of this book, here’s some receipts:• he made lenora’s nemesis suck his dick off in the middle of a school hallway in front of the ENTIRE STUDENT BODY (!!!!) and lenora just to “prove a point” (he was pissed because she had just said that she would never be with a monster like him).• vaughn when thinking about/talking to the heroine:“my little dancing monkey. so agreeable you could get her to deepthroat a baseball bat if you asked, and not even nicely”.“your face disgusts me so much”“good, i might remember your insignificant existence in a couple years”“i’m starting to consider it. you’ll be my pro bono case. not full-on fucking, but feeling your lip ring on my cock no longer makes me want to vomit”“getting pushed around a little was just what the doctor ordered. by me. not anyone else. only ever fucking me”(he’s talking about how only HE gets to bully her and make her life hell, not anyone else in the school)“i was going to take every single thing she loved and cared about. not because she interested me, but because she was a means to an end”(not really, the only thing he needed to get his revenge was the internship, bullying her and making her life hell was just because he was a literal asshole, i repeat, THERE WAS NO REASON WHY VAUGHN HATED LENORA)“you will do nothing but suck my cock and cater to my every need this next semester”(lmao sure jan)“if you prove to know how to suck a cock, i might show you some of the places, just as long as you don’t confuse this for a relationship or expect me to get you off. i don’t get people off”(no comments)“i wasn’t going to use her services, unless her lips counted as service when they wrapped around my cock every night”(again, no comments)“whatever you have going with him stops now, you were my property at all saints, and you’re sure as fuck my possession here”(oof the love that exudes off of him)“if she was dumb enough to say i never gave her a birthday present, i really had no goddamn interest in tapping her ass anyway”(he legit just thinks she’s a hole to fuck, no more no less)“i slid the chisel into her pussy, i wasn’t going to hurt her, not really”(i just…. he put a chisel INSIDE HER, like an actual tool that could have hurt her lit rally speechless)• bonus lenora quote:“essentially, deep down, we all liked to be sexually degraded, just a bit”.ma’am is everything okay at home??? i don’t think you can speak for the entire female population and say something like that. i don’t think the majority of women like to be treated like trash when having sex, but you do you.and that leaves us with the last thing about this book that i hated, and it wasthe outrageous and ridiculous things that kept happening in this book.i don’t know why but the plot points that lj shen used in this book were incredibly unrealistic. the whole drug-smuggling thing, the way harry ends up being killed and no one suspects a thing when the place screamed “crime scene”, the whole arabella/lenora’s father miscommunication plotline, lenora’s father giving the internship to vaughn instead of his own daughter just so that she would fall in love with vaughn because according to her father “he could see the magic surrounding them when vaughn gave lenora a piece of brownie when they were actual kids”. LET THAT RIDICULOUS THOUGHT SINK IN. and again another epilogue where characters that are barely out of their teenage years are having kids. literally every one of this series’ epilogues is the same. 19/20 years old getting married and pregnant immediately. apparently, the author doesn’t know any other way of ending her books. they all got to get married and have kids by the age of 20. in this economy??? i don’t think so ma’am. i’m tired, and i’m glad that this is the last lj shen book that i will ever pick up in my entire life. good riddance!