I'm Aileene. And this is my guilty pleasure.I, also, for the benefit of others who have no idea what ridges are, put the very definition of it at the end of this review.Do not scroll down! Read the review first.Alrighty then, on to the review.Barbarian Prize is the fifth book of Ruby Dixon's Ice Planet Barbarian's series where Tiffany and Salukh were featured this time.Tiffany, one of the rescued female human who wasabducted and raped by the orange ball head aliens and was scarred by this traumatic experience.She was described as the most popular and beautiful single woman in Not-Hoth and because of that, sa-khui males flock to her to win her (hard to earn) affection. She never basked in to all these attentions but rather cringed away.Salukh ourvirginblue alien who was harbouring a secret crush on Tiffany since the beginning. Who saw her beauty and the ugly scars she tried to hide.Together they created a hard to put down book and I have to give it to our very confident and persistent Salukh as he was always there for her, helped her face her fears and put the horrors of her past behind her.I gotta say, this premise is one that has been done before. However, there are just enough “things” to make this feel stand out from the others. And I have to say, it's the level of gentleness and caring we got from Salukh as we watched him winning Tiffany's trust whilstcoaxing his khui to claim herat the same time. The coaxing part is definitely a winner for me. It has endeared me plentiful.And of course, how could I forget,RIDGES!This book has abundance of RIDGES. Ms Dixon had indeed spoilt me rotten incorporating this (hard to find) enhancer on every second chapter of the book.And for those reasons, I found myself enraptured with this book.There are a few times I gave eyebrow raised due to irritation while reading. I couldn't understand why the other males sa-khui didn't pursue Josie. Josie who was equally single and more than willing to be mated. Did cranky Haeden stake his claim to this mouthyUrthfemale in secret and will later be revealed in the next sequel?The author kinda dragged out the story too. The competition was unnecessary but still a welcome additional event nonetheless.Also, I have to say that I almost took out my stone coated frying pan from my pantry to smack Tiffany at the back of her head because of her stupidity.But as usual, all is well that ends well with Ms Dixon's blue aliens series.Rating it 4.5home-is-where-the-heart-isNot-Hoth-is-where-the-ridges-are StarsSo, as mentioned above, Ridges interpretation.Ribbed for maximumIntimacyDuring sexy times with theseGenerouslyEndowedSpeciesNow, tell me did you skip the review and scrolled right down to this bit?_______________22 Feb 16TOO MANY RIDGES...too--many--ridges...aaaaaa..FULL REVIEW TO COME. THAT IS IF I MANAGED TO COME OUT OF THIS INTOXICATION.------15 Feb 16PLS LET THERE BE RIDGES.LOTS AND LOTSARIDGES.Buddy read with my amazing Abs Geishas on 15 Feb 16