4 Stars!Be with Meis the story of Teresa (Tess) and Jase. Jase is Cam’s best friend and Tess is Cam’s little sister. You can see where this is going, right? Although Jase and Tess have had feelings for one another since that shared kiss over a year ago, Jase has stayed away. Now that Tess is on the same college campus as Jase, it is so much harder for him to keep his distance. He wants Tess, it’s obvious, but he can’t have her. For so many reasons, he feels they can’t be together. He can’t have Tess, but what he doesn’t realize is that he already does. No one compares to Jase for her.“I’m sorry. What happened between us? It shouldn’t have, and I am so very fucking sorry.”“You’re Cam’s little sister. You’re untouchable.”Tess and Jase do the friendship thing for a while. Tess is at that college for one reason. She injured her knee and can’t dance at the moment. After learning she shares a class with Jase, he offers to chauffeur her around campus to make it easier for her. This means they spend a lot of time together. The more time they spend together, the harder it becomes for Jase to resist her. He still has so many reservations, but he can’t control himself around her. He can’t continue to push her away.Tess and Jase enter in a relationship, but they keep it to themselves for now. When is a good time to tell Cam that his best friend (who used to be somewhat of a ladies man) and his baby sister are together? Cam is extra protective of Tess, especially after the situation with her last boyfriendHe was abusive to Tess, Cam found out and beat the crap out of him etc. Things are different with Tess than any other girl. So different. He is all in with her. Jase takes her to meet his parents, and the little boy who means everything to him, his little brother Jack. He doesn’t do things like that. Not ever. Tess is special. He can see a future with her.“I didn’t care about them. Not like I care about you, Tess. I want this- I want us to be different. I want us to mean more than sex. I need us to mean more than that. Okay?”What will the future hold? When or if Tess’s knee injury heals, will she take off to dance? Jase has obligations that keep him where he is. He can’t leave the area. Before they get to delve too deep into any of that, a lot of crazy things go down. When we found out Jase’s secret early on, I have to say I wasn’t surprised. It was fairly predictable. But this? When we hit that 60-65% mark, I can truthfully say I DID NOT SEE THAT COMING! And I cried. And it changed everything. From the 65% mark on, it became very fast paced, a little angsty, and kept me completely on the edge of my seat!Jase and Tess made a fantastic couple. Once they faced some of the obstacles that were between them, I adored them together. Jase was the sweetest. The cupcake thing... made me melt! And he was HOT! The scenes between the two of them were much steamier than the first book imo. I liked the quote that Jase said about good things coming from the unexpected. I think that was the best thing about this book. Everything that happened to each of the mc’s was something unexpected. Things that they never wanted or expected, but things that ended up working out just fine.Wait for Youwas one of my favorite NA books of last year. I loved everything about it.Be with Mewas a great read too. It was sexy, sweet, funny and even a bit suspenseful. For some reason, I just didn’t get into it as much as book one. The beginning half was a bit slow for me. It was very well written, and still a great story, it just didn’t hit my five star buttons. Still, I would recommend it to any JLA and NA fans. I see that Calla’s book will be next (Stay with Me- due sometime September 2014) and I’m looking forward to that. She seemed like a good friend to Tess and after hearing a little of her story, I’m interested to see whats going to happen with her.