2.5 starsspecifically broken down as follows:1 star - for the first 45%1.5 stars - for the last 3%i got to know about this book from a GR reviewer whose opinion i trust.. but i guess i shouldn't trust strangers right..? Just kidding-its just difference in taste..the plotLily Murphy's is just an ordinary girl from the bronx. her mum gets married to a 65 year old billionaire, resultanting in her transfer to the prestigious Black Lake Prep. Academy. shes the only one with a poor background, and she is also now the step aunt of Asher (his grandfather is her mums new husband), a rich guy. so, Asher and his friends bully her, call her gold-digger (goldie for short) and aim to make her life hell.Lily - the LLshe sounds strong and badass in the first 45% but again, she suffers from the disease also known as'the guys are so hott that my vag just cant resist even though they treat me like shit syndrome'.. i hate that shit!The harem- Asher, and his 3 buddieshonestly, i liked them at first but they are dipshits.overall opinionsummary of events:1. Asher (the step nephew ) treats her like shit from the word go. calling her a gold digger and just being nasty to her.2. Kai (one of the twins) tricks her into a situation that leaves a target on her back from a bigger bully named Chloe.3. Asher - announces in class that the LL has a learning disability, Dyslexia.4.after the above, LL has sex with Asher, in exchange for information which she doesnt even get btw.5. the guys suddenly start talking to her and trying to befriend her(kai and Jayden) and she accepts as if everything is A-O-K.. there was no apology btw to even encourage her to move forward with them like nothing happened.A)so basically, another potentially strong badass LL goes down in flames because of raging hormones despite being treated like shit:B)Dont get me started on some of the things the guys said that left me bamboozled as to why she would even find them in the least bit attractive (outside of the bullying experience):Exhibit AAsher to LL after a round of unattached spontaneous sex:"you play like such a good girl, but here you are fucking a guy for informationExhibit BJayden to LL trying to explain why he has a sudden interest in her:"guys are like dominoes. you knock one down and the rest fall. we dont know what we want until we see somebody else with itExhibit Cthe same Jayden above talking to the guys in Lily's presence:"i'm heading out to the yatch with Masie, hoping that it'll finally be enough to get in her pants" Jayden says with his eyes closed. "that girl is old fashioned, i've already taken her out twice now"at this point my pussy is as dry as a fucking desert:C)Need i mention the level of hateration for females in these bully romance BS books.. like why do LL forgive the male counterparts who bully them without even an apology, but continue to hate on the female counterparts who bully them? the reason Chloe bullied Lily was even because of Kai's trap, and his twin brother (whose name i dont even remember cause he's presence in the book is still a bafflement to me). like hate them equally at least.. case in point, after she spontaneously forgives the guys, she has lunch with them and says:"that's a relationship that i will never understand (she's talking about the other twin whose dating Chloe). Lukas (oh! so thats his name) isnt exactly the friendliest guy, but he doesnt seem like evil incarnate. what can he possible see in her"why she is even free enough to talk like this to the same guys who were bullying her 10 seconds ago is just beyond me:this book suspiciously sounds very similar to "the Help" by Rose Callie...Frankly speaking, if she ends up fucking Liam (a teacher who was fired), i think this book might get a lot more interesting.i dont know if i'll read book2. the cliffy is catchy and promises to address the LL's treacherous pussy, but i just dont trust these authors nomore