The core ingredients in myfighting-depressionarsenal:➊ book with an i-am-dying level of hilariousness➋ book with an i-shall-overdose level of adorableness➌ book with an oh-my-rainbow-heart level of LGBT+ rep➍ accordingly chosen music for playlist ➾Spotify linkOr, you know, in short:this book aka Boyfriend Material.“I’m in love with you, Lucien. But it seems hardly adequate.”You need to understand, the humour in this book shines quite blindingly through every scene, be it awkward, sweet, or emotional, making it less a hot and sexy adult romance and more a lethally cute and funny one. Honestly, it’s just heart emoji if it had two covers and 400+ pages.So if you’re looking for arolling on the floor laughing my ass offtype of book aboutfake datinggoing horribly wrong (or right, depending on your perspective), sprinkled withlife as adult gay men, cluelessposh English nobles, relationship drama that is extremelyreal and different, being haunted byrockstar parents, some insight to life as avegetarian, work as abarrister, and a job at acharity(I mean insights into getting people to give you their money without shouting “give me your money you potato burger”), dripping with too-adorable lessons on the complications of relationships and trust and generallyoh my god I have feelings what do I dofor ahedgehog main character...you’ve come to the right place.I loved it, not least because it was not set in America thank you lord?“You really do own your illiteracy, don’t you?”“Yeah, I’m thinking about moving to America and running for public office.”Guys I swear I made an effort to keep it short this timeI swearbut then I started writing, and I have no idea what happened next.CW➾ homophobia, abandonment by parent, narcissistic parent, emotional abuseTheHumourThat BeYou all know me, I’m a clown, I admire clowns, and I value humour most in my books. AndI realise that I’m also an unstable weirdo who laughs at worldwide disasters and a crack in the wall (which in reality is funny but that’s another conversation) BUT,oh my god this book is absolutely hilarious. Like,asphyxiation, suffocation, choke you till you diehilarious (which is not as grim as it may sound—a worthy end to a life, really).The writing is so witty and absurd; it makes jokes the way you chat up ab attractive lady slash dude slash whocaresaboutgender—rather smooth and disarming, is what I mean. The banter is only the start of it; what’s most unique aboutBoyfriend Materialis its creativity in creating iconic and persistent patterns and brands of humour and weaving them all throughout the pages from one cover to the other, so that many jokes connect but also diverge and pop up in unexpected places in the most perfect way. And that is why I had a blast with every page.TheRepresentationThat BeAnybody can put together a cast of lesbian, gay, bi, etc characters and call it a yay-day, but it’s quite something else for the baggage they drag into the page to make them feel less like boxes ticked off a grocery-like list and more like, you know, actual human beings. WithBoyfriend Material, even though the aforementioned baggage is not fully and deeply opened and stifled through, it’s constantly present and considered in the character’s everyday lives and conversations to berealrather than fake or overwhelming.“You should never let anyone tell you it is wrong to be how you are.”Too many LGBT+ books are about only the most painful and/or prominent moments of a person’s life, and while there is never enough books on stepping out of the closet and finding yourself and your place, this community also needs easy rep of everyday drama.What if you’ve come out to all your friends and family and have a healthy relationship of love and acceptance with all the people in your personal life? What’s next? How do you live a normal life and deal with all the different people out in the world, having their own understanding, ignorant, or (veiled) homophobic opinions? Those are the exact type of questions Alexis Hall tells a story about.TheCharactersThat Be(this got long whoops)★Protagonist:Luc is the human equivalent of a hedgehog. You mightwantto hug him but as soon you get remotely near you should pick up a shield becauseohmygod ohmygod vulnerability alert cannot deal i repeat cannot deal ready for launch.I’m not even kidding.“It’s just…it’s going to be all hard and messy.”“Lots of things are. Many of them are still worth doing.”It was a sign of quite how fucked up I was feeling that I didn’t try to make a joke out of hard, messy or, indeed, worth doing.He’s such a haunted, wounded, pessimistic, self-deprecating, miserable, sarcastic, paranoid mess of a drama queen (rightfully so because, when all you see of yourself is what the tabloids show you, what else do you expect) who’s rather fond of his teenager mode that I just want to hug the 28 yo bellend, damn being impaled. His growth was handled so deftly and smoothly, with the necessary bumps in the road of course, and it was so heartfelt and precious to see him learn to communicate and trust.✯Love Interest:I have zero idea what to do with Oliver becauseoh my god this dude. Really, as Luc put it, “Normally I didn’t do sweet but, well, Oliver.” He’s the very definition of a gentleman, ugh. Respectful and considerate yet opinionated and ethical (I mean jeez only Oliver could turn a brownie into an ethical quandary), clean and serious yet secretly funny and rebellious, soft and delicate yet protective and slightly controlling. So patient, so caring, so outrageously thoughtful (master of logistics and being careful, if I say so myself).And he’s trying so hard and, ugh, dammit,it turns him into such an adorable secretly anxious lion-looking puppy—which makes no sense, what with one being from the dear old cat family and one the loyal dog one.I just cannot resist sharing his texting panic:I was unexpectedly de-sleeped by a buzzing from my phone at 5:00 a.m.:My apologies. Next time, I’ll send a photograph of my penis.And then several further buzzings.That was a joke.I should probably make it clear that I’m not intending to send you any pictures.I’ve never sent that sort of thing to anybody.As a lawyer, it’s hard not to be aware of the potential consequences.I also realise you’re probably asleep at the moment. So perhaps if you could just delete the previous five messages when you wake up.Of course, I should emphasise that I am not meaning to imply any judgment about people who do choose to send intimate photographs to one another.It’s just not something I’m comfortable with.Of course if it is something you’re comfortable with, I understand.Not that I’m suggesting you have to send me a picture of your penis.Oh God, can you please delete every text I’ve ever sent you.He had me frustrated yet amused and drowning in adoration, shaking my head and goingawwwwwwwevery other chapter while, frankly,if I met him in real life there would probably be less amusement and adoration and more devising an evil plan to shake his life to the core, driving him right over a metaphorical cliff questioning all his beliefs and messing up all the meticulously ordered aspects of his life.Don’t look so surprised, you already know I’m evil.Now that I really think about it though, I’m starting to come to the conclusion that Ihave, indeed, met him in real life. He’s my eldest brother *insert poker face* I...I don’t quite know what to do with that information.☆Sidekicks:You know that friend (or maybe not friend, maybe it’s yourself) who isso absurd or weird or different that they end up always standing out like a sore thumb, whenever and wherever, for good or worse, and has people whisperingthat one is such a character? That’s all the characters in this book.LikeAlexThe Posh And Incomprehensible Co-Worker who, if you held an exam on puns with scores from 0 to 100, would get a pretty minus with adorable bunny ears. No, scratch that, he’d receive a full mark and forever ruin all kinds of jokes for you—I honestly don’t think I can listen to theknock-knockjoke or theelephantones without thinking of his take; which is a good thing, I believe, since it would drive me to laugh harder than asked for by the dear joker. Seriously, the man uses hashtags like this:#ColeopteraResearchAndProtectionProjectAnnualFundraisingDinnerAndDanceWithSilentAuctionOfEtymologicalSpecimensAlsoKnownAsTheBeetleDriveAtTheRoyalAmbassadorsHotelMaryleboneNotTheOneInEdinburghTicketsAvailableFromOurWebsiteNowOrPriyaThe Only One With An Automobile AKA Truck who, even in her short scenes, managed to steal my heart with her ice-thorny attitude and steadfast support. Not gonna lie, it might be because she unbelievably reminded me ofAmrenfrom my other current read.OrBridgetThe Group’s Token Straight Girl and her publishing industry dramas, sweeping in with ayou are not gonna believe what happenedand anI can’t really talk about it butand aI’m definitely gonna get fired. I was literally sitting with my eyes glued to the metaphorical door waiting for her to make a hasty entrance and steal the stage.“Either you never trust anybody ever again, and pretend that stops people hurting you when clearly it doesn’t. Or, um, don’t do that. And maybe your house will burn down. But, at least you’ll be warm. And probably the next place will be better. And come with an induction hob.”Or evenSophieThe Evil Lawyer From The Other Gang who I immediately became obsessed with. Or, truly,Tomwho was the rare sensible one among them and I have no idea why he would bother to hang out with these nut-houses except if he’s got a secret weird fetish for their weirdness and needs them in his life the way you’d need puppies. OrDr. Faircloughwhom I can’t begin to summarise in one sentence—I mean I could, but I don’t want to.I’ll be honest, at first I felt as if the friends and family coming along for the ride all sounded the same, but that issonot the case. Yes, the MC and most of his group of friends do have constant banter that feels on the same wavelength, butof course it makes sense that birds of a feather flock together. Most of their gang and even his, duh, mum speak the same language (seriously, I have the same out-of-nowhere back-and-forths with folks who share my crazy or are compatible with it) while that very humour applied to people outside of their circle could invite amusement, bewilderment, or nothing, falling flat with a loud, awkward thump. It was when I could say which of the two James Royce-Royces (yes they’r married, don’t even ask) was speaking that I saw how real these words on a page had become to me.The way I see it, what makes these characters remarkable and tangible is their small quirks, annoying habits, and persistent figures of speech and thought—I know that’s not an actual thing but, please, bear with me.Such as the way Luc’s mum could say such well-meaning clueless things that would be possibly harmful but are not because she succeeds in getting her wisdom and actual meaning across. Somehow.TheRelationshipsThat BeThis was why relationships sucked: they made you need shit you’d been perfectly happy not needing. And then they took them away.I don’t think I’m actually in fit condition to discuss this...beautiful, unforgettable, filled-with-endearing-arguments, so-palpable-it-was-about-to-step-out-of-the-page-and-murder-me...matter, seeing as I’ve had a couple of peculiar near-death experiences from cuteness overdose. So forgive me as I skip this step and just very calmly thank the author for having the characters quickly address problems arising from lack of communication. Mature relationships and drama that seeks to identify other challenges in people’s psyche instead of the same old same old formula of miscommunication and panic will forever be what I would sell my soul for (I should stress that I did not mean that literally; my soul is not up for sale Ms. Hall, for I do not have one).The wholesome, fully developed friendships and familial bonds despite—or should I saybecause of—complications were also nothing short of marvelous. And I wholeheartedly appreciated how the family struggles were concluded realistically, if not happily, or in one case only began to be dealt with—it was refreshing, so there’s that. And I’m done. Shoo, now.TheThemesThat Be(If you were not wondering whether I’d misplaced or forgotten mylet’s dig deep and see what the book really had to say and generally overanalyse everythingpart, that you do not know me my dear—which is for the best, really. Do say a prayer of thanks.)“I’m coming to the conclusion I might be unbelievably terrified.”“Me too,” I said. “But let’s be terrified together.”With all its jokes and fun times,Boyfriend Materialis about dealing with and facing life head on because the more we try to hide from something, the more power we give it. It shows why you need to accept that you need help, and realise that no one else is going to sweep in and suddenly turn your life upside down; no matter how much they help you move forward and see your path more clearly, it’syouwho walks it. And more importantly,it’s about understanding and taking the first step and the second step and the third one, rather than finishing a journey that doesn’t really have an end. That, in the end, the world is not going to become heaven populated by nice and kind people.And that, really, it’s not about the three words, it’s about everything that came before it and everything that comes after it.