Two steps forward; three steps back(Spoilers only if you haven't read the first 3 Books)Captivated by Youis the perfect springboard for a finale, but didn't quite deliver the punch expected from the Crossfire series... I think it's fair to say I'mCaptivatedby Eva & Gideon's story... Due to that fact, I also think I hold Sylvia Day to a different standard than other authors. Reading is subjective that way....The true strength of the Crossfire series is found in the complexity of the characters - Deeply and tragically flawed... Their struggle humanizes a tale which could easily be lost in the extravagance of a well-worn plot.Stop me if you've heard this one...An alpha-male billionaire with a dominant streak who seduces a reluctant and intelligent young girl.He relentlessly pursues her with a singular focus which borders on obsession.She's the antithesis of his usual type, and he's forced to break all his rules for her.He doesn't feel worthy of her, he's never been in a genuine relationship, he keeps women at a safe distance.He's broken...Her love will heal him...I know, right? I don't think I was the only reader worried about getting tangled in overused literary tropes when I picked up the first book of this series back in 2012...I also know I wasn't alone when I became completely entranced by Eva and Gideon's whirlwind romance.I was left with a nearly lethal book hangover from the first books. I even re-read the books in preparation for each subsequent publication... Count it out. That means I've read the first book FOUR times...So here's an important question; will I re-readCaptivated by Youbefore the release ofOne with You(whenever the fuckthathappens)? Absolutely not. There wasn't much substance here to warrant a thorough re-reading...However, it was a delightful tease to keep me interested in Eva and Gideon.There was a dual point-of-view element here which I found fascinating - the POV alternated between Gideon and Eva with each chapter.All the sizzling heat I've come to expect from the Crossfire series was there in spades. And, as usual, it was an emotional roller coaster...This is my favorite fictional, twisted, mentally unstable couple...Gideon CrossHe didn’t see in himself what I saw— a generous soul who wanted so much to belong to something greater than himself. He didn’t recognize what a miracle he was. When he didn’t know what to do in a given situation, he let instinct and his heart take over. Despite all he’d been through, he had such an amazing capacity to feel and to love.Gideon has his prize - after chasing and struggling for several months, Eva is now his wife. The rest of the world might not realize that Gideon and Eva have tied the knot, but there's no mistaking that she ishis.Gideon Cross once stood as the unbreakable Master of the Universe. He made many enemies as he built this corporate empire. There are countless people who would love to take him down a peg or two.Those who wish to see him suffer for the sins of his father...Business adversaries crushed under his ambition...Countless women he callously tossed aside...For all those people, Eva Trammel now represents a long-sought weakness for Gideon. One they intend to exploit.Eva TrammelFor now, Gideon and I had secrets we could share only with each other, and that kept us isolated and codependent. It wasn’t only innocence our abusers had taken away from us; they’d also taken our freedom. Even after the abuse was long over, we were still caged by the false fronts we lived behind. Still caged by lies, but in a different way.Eva is still struggling with the fact that Gideon keeps silent about his troubles. He doesn't share the content of his nightmares. He keeps secrets, and tries to remain an island. That doesn't work for her anymore. If they're going to be married she expects an equal partnership, but Gideon can't seem to deliver.He manipulates her with sex and silently schemes with behind the scenes tactics. Eva knows that Gideon does this with the most honorable of intentions, but is the result really worth the emotional turmoil he repeatedly puts her through?Still, Eva is hopelessly dependent on her emotional connection to Gideon.He loves her deeply...He has killed for her...He tries so hard to make her happy and keep her safe...He continues to work diligently to destroy all threats against her...Those threats came out of the woodwork for this installment of the Crossfire series. Even though Eva's abuser is dead, ghosts from both Eva and Gideon's pasts line the streets of New York City waiting to strike them down.Side Note:Cary's presence was a highlight of this book. He is struggling through some difficult situations of his own - he's caught in a love triangle between the man he loves and a woman he accidentally got pregnant - but his raw honesty with his best friend was wonderful to read. As always, the scenes with Cary infused a much-needed element of humor into this emotional book."...Love should be easier than this,” I complained.“If this were a romantic comedy, it’d be calledLove Actually Sucks.”“Maybe we should’ve stuck withSex and the City.”“Tried that. Ended upKnocked Up. I should’ve gone for being a40-Year-Old Virgin, but I had way too much of a head start.”“We can write a manual on How to Lose a Guy in 10 Weeks.”Cary looked at me. “Fucking perfect.”Scenes like that were reminiscent of the classic 'Fortune Cookie' scene from book one and reminded me why I love this series.As I said before, it's fair to say that I hold Sylvia Day to a different standard. She has already earned my loyalty to this fabulous series...When a series encompasses a single narrative I tend to judge it based on the whole rather than the individual books. With that in mind, I feel thatCaptivated by Youis merely the calm (relatively) before the storm. A bit washed out in comparison to the vibrancy of the prior books.Was this an entertaining read?Yes.Did the writing quality live up to my expectations?Absolutely.Was I sucked in immediately?Hell yes.Was this book worth the wait?No.Will I continue this series when the next book goes live?You bet your ass.I look forward to seeing what Sylvia Day has in store for us next with this series.Aaaaaand now we begin the arduous wait for the fifth book..."You can tell yourself that Eva and I are incompatible," I said tightly, "That we're either fighting or fucking with nothing of substance in between. But the truth is that she's the other half of me..."If you'd like to test this book out before you buy it, you can read the FIRST THREE CHAPTERS ONSylvia Day's Websitefor FREE!