This is book 7 in a MC series, but you could read it as a standalone. It’s age gap (16 years), and he’s her best friend’s step-dad. I wanted give this 4 stars, because I liked the first half. And, this author writes lyrical nice prose, in a way that you don’t often see in spicy books - especially MC. She isn't as good as Lauren Gilley (the best MC writer), but she's still better than 99% of others in the genre. Even a “meh” book from her is a cut above most others. But I had to knock off a star for the second half.This is “friends to enemies to lovers,” about Mei, who’s a new character, and Henning / Axe / Axe-Man (who’s been mentioned in past books, but in a vague way. Just like, we know he exists. He hasn’t been built up much before getting his own book, which is odd). Since it’s a Giana Darling age gap story, of course it starts when the heroine is SUPER young – she’s 12 and he’s 28, at the start. (They don’t get romantic until after a time jump, when she’s 25 and he’s 40).He's her best friend Cleo’s step dad. After Cleo’s mom gets murdered, both Axe and Mei feel responsible for protecting Cleo, and avenging his wife. So they’re kind of a “found family” team. (Cleo was in past books, but since this book took so long to come out, I barely remembered her. But, that ended up being okay. This story filled in context about her, so I wasn't lost).I was skeptical about this premise, but it’s handled well. Although he loved his wife, he wasn’t IN love with her. They didn’t even sleep together. So, it doesn’t feel like Mei is “second best” to his dead wife. It also doesn’t feel too weird that his wife was a mother figure to Mei – it doesn’t feel like Mei is betraying this woman, by later being with him – since he and his wife were a “friendly love” vibe.And: I have to give this some credit: Mei is half-Chinese, and it's not done in a way where there are a couple references to her having dark hair, but other than that, we could easily forget. The culture is really woven in. You can tell research was done.This had slower pacing than this author’s other books, and there's no steam until around 60% in. For the first 32% Mei is 12 and then 17, and he’s 28 and then 33. Some readers might be put off by that. But, the story drew me in. Did this part need to take up the entire first 32% of the book? Probably not! But, I liked how it took the time to build their relationship. I like their dynamic here, where they’re close and understand each other on an instinctive level, but it’s hard to label what they are to each other. This did a good job showing us that (instead of just telling us).After an 8-year time jump, she’s 25 and he’s 40 for the rest of the story. Suddenly, now he’s mean to her – so is the club, since they're on his side. This is where the story lost me, a bit.I love “friends to enemies to lovers.” It’s a great angsty trope! But when they meet again after being apart for 8 years and he hates her, his reason doesn’t make sense. This book keeps saying that it’s her fault thathe went to jail for 3 years. But, that’s not what it showed on the page! It was his old MC Prez’s fault.So, there’s a disconnect between what this book showed on the page, and what it keeps saying. It feels like this book is gaslighting us. We were there! We saw what happened! It's like, this story can’t make up its own mind about what it’s even saying. One paragraph will acknowledge that it washis old Prez’s fault he went to jail.Then a few paragraphs later, this book is like, “it was Mei’s fault.” It’s very weird.This story also says that another reason for his hate is that Mei didn’tvisit him, in jail. Except, we’re also told she DID visit after eighteen months, and he was cold and refused to add her to his visitor's list and she did write him letters and emails that he didn’t accept! That’s not “abandoning” him!Words have meaning!So, he seems foolish, for acting like a victim, and Mei is annoying, too, for acting like a martyr. When Axe and everyone in the club treats her poorly, she takes it, because she “deserves it” for what she did years ago. Her crime was“abandoning” Axe and Cleo when he went to jail. But she didn’t do that! It’s Axe’s fault they’ve been separated for 8 years. He could have made up with her less than 2 years after their separation, when she reached out to him! The fact that they were separated so long is on HIM!I’m not against a story where a heroine wronged the hero– but then, she should be legitimately guilty! It’s like, this book forgot to write Mei actually doing the crime. And all the characters are reacting to a story that wasn’t shown on the page. So, although I like the “friends to enemies to lovers,” trope, this fumbled the “enemies” phase. (And this book took forever to come out, so the author had plenty of time to make this stuff more coherent).Axe’s behavior during this part seems childish. He was interesting and likable and had depth in the first half. Then in the second half, he’s like a petulant teen boy. It flattens his character from all the good methodical work that the first part of this book did.Also, in his POV chapters, his thoughts are written like:I'm drivin’ to school and pickin’ up my daughter.I got pulled into the story enough to overlook it. It’s fine for him to talk like that aloud in dialogue, but it’s annoying and distracting for his inner monologue to be that way. He even texted like that, which had the OPPOSITE effect of seeming casual and colloquial – since it takes more effort to type like that than to just text normally. (If I remember right, other books in the series are like that, too. But it’s still not working).This series has been weird, because in past books, other side characters have been built up to get their own stories (like Wrath. Or Honey and Lysander. And this book made me remember that Cleo and Kodiak have been built up). Axe and Mei got NO build up – he was on the fringes of past books, and she wasn’t even in them. And it sounds like book 8 might be about Cedar, a new character introduced in this book, and it will skip over all those other OG characters who have been built up and waiting for their own books. Who cares about Cedar? I’m a clown because I’ll probably give it a try anyway. But, the logic in how this series is unfolding makes no sense.Despite my issues with it, I did enjoy reading a lot of this book. I've had some problems with every book in this series, but it's still among the better MC series. (For example:Good Gone Badhad an even messier plot than this. The religious fanatics plotline inDead Man Walkingwas tedious, etc etc). There’s something about the way this author writes prose and characters and relationships that just draws me in, regardless of how messy some parts of her books are.