OH MYYYYY LIFE!Ok, I'm going to start off with a warning. Only read this book when you have bugger all else to do for the day! You will not want to put it down!Jesus, what a rollercoaster! This book has totally messed up my day. I read last night until I physically could not keep my eyes open. I was so tired that I was falling asleep half way through a chapter and dreaming the rest of the story. In the end, I gave up. I picked it up when the other half left for work and said to myself 'Oh, I'll just read a bit before I get up.' Two hours later and I drag myself out of bed to feed my poor starving dogs.Whilst eating my breakfast, I decide to just read a bit before getting in the shower and continuing with my day. That was two hours ago. And here I sit, unshowered, in my PJs, breakfast bowl on the table next to me, writing this review!!! I couldn't not! I had to get it out.So, let's talk aboutCollide.Wow. It's intense! Who did I love and who did I hate... I loved Gavin, my feelings yo-yo'd for Emily andhatedDillon!!! There are great surrounding characters in this book too. Emily's friend's Olivia and Fallon are fab. Gavin's friend Trevor is super cute.InCollideEmily moves to New York to be nearer her boyfriend, Dillon, and best friend, Olivia, after the death of her mother. But upon moving into the post-college 'real world' and what is also Dillon's world, things aren't what Emily hopes they will be.Dillon's high powered job keeps him out late at night, his interfering exes rear their ugly heads, his alcohol consumption seems to be spiralling out of control and he has a temper that Emily hadn't witnessed before.And to top it all off, Emily meets Gavin. Gavin is insanely sexy. He's gorgeous, wealthy, charming and he's got his heart set on Emily.Though his father had told him stories about it happening, until that fateful afternoon, Gavin Blake had believed that love at first site didn't exist.And then they realise that Gavin is Dillon's close friend and Emily is Dillon's girlfriend.Collidefollows Gavin and Emily as they try to deal with their undeniable connection to one another and the fallout that it leaves in it's wake."I've never felt so heartbroken and so in love at the same time. If you would've told me the day we met that you were going to break my heart - and that days, months, or even years would pass, that I would still be hurting like this - it wouldn't have stopped me from falling in love with you."We'll begin with Emily. Urgh, the girl needed a kick up the backside at times. I didn't dislike her. At times my heart broke for her. At times I wanted to shake her. And at times I was right behind her, cheering her on. Dillon helped her through an incredibly painful time, when she lost her mother and she feels strongly indebted to him for this. I can completely see why this drives some of her poor choices and reactions to his behaviour. But, my God, was it frustrating!Her mind tried to fight a bloody battle against what her body already knew. She wanted him, and she wanted him bad.Dillon is a dickhead. There's no two ways about it. He's controlling, possessive, aggressive, arrogant, manipulative, disrespectful, unfaithful, dishonest... shall I continue?! I absolutely hated him from quite early on in the book. As soon as he started becoming a little overbearing, I could totally see where the author was taking the story and my dislike for Dillon began to fester.And then there's Gavin. *sigh* Gavin Gavin Gavin Gavin Gavin.'Mr. Tall, Dark and Fuckable Handsome'! At the beginning of the book, he's just undeniably hot, smooth, panty-wetting, gorgeous, [insert complimentary adjective here]... But as the book progresses, he becomes so much more than that.Now, I'm not usually one to buy into the whole 'love at first sight' spiel, but it totally didn't bother me in this book. I luuurrrved the way Gavin wanted Emily. I loved that every time they were in the same room, their eyes locked and they were drawn to one another. I loved that he felt that she was meant to be with him, despite the fact that she was with Dillon. And, hell, I was even bouncing in my seat when they were sneaking around behind everyone's backs!! The stolen touches, the secret glances, the whispered innuendos. Mmmmm mmmm!"Am I making it hard for you?" he asked mockingly."Yes, Gavin you are," she quietly spat, her fingertips white-knuckled around her glass.With his need for her trapped inside - blistering hot, sweltering, ready to explode - he leaned in closer, dropping his voice. "Good, because whenever you're near me, I fucking lose every bit of self-control I have left."Speaking of which... Oh my goodness, this book is Haaaawt! with a capital H and an 'aw'!"There's not a man on Earth who doesn't wish he was me right now. Your mind and your body will never forget the things I'm going to do to you tonight. Every...single...inch of your body is going to feel me.""Oh my God.""Yes."I guess it's the idea of the forbidden fruit. The taboo. And I know it makes me a very bad, morally corrupt person, but squeeeee, I freakin' loved it! It's like Thoughtless, but if Denny were a complete tool!"I want you to give in to what I see behind your eyes every time I'm near you. I want you to give in to the way you trembled in my arms when I touched you... the way your breathing becomes faster when I look at you. I loved the way your lips felt against mine, and I'm pretty sure you did, too. I also enjoy the way I can almost feel you becoming wet for me right now. Are you going to pretend that you don't feel anything for me, Emily?"And lastly, there's the ending. Jesus H. Christ! I've had this on my Kindle for months and I kept looking at it, wondering if I should just read it. And then I got asked to be a part of the blog tour to read and review the second book,Pulse. So, I decided to putCollideon hold and wait until near the date of my blog stop, so that I could read both at once. Thank fuck I did! Otherwise, right now, I'd be pulling my hair out. It's a brutal, heart-pounding, palm-sweating cliffhanger."Sometimes, bad choices bring us to the right people."The last 20% of this book is fast paced and absolutely deliciously juicy! I couldn't tear my eyes away (hence the lack of shower debacle). It's steamy, heart breaking, intense, painful and explosive.So, I'm going to force myself to go and do normal day-to-day, mandatory things right now, before allowing myself to dive into Pulse ready for my blog spot on Monday.CollideStatisticsSteam Rating (out of 5):♥♥♥♥♥Ending:CliffhangerSeries:✓ (Collideseries)Reading Order:Book #1 -CollideBook #2 -PulseCan this be read as a standalone?NoThemes:Love triangleLove at first sightControlling partnerWarning. This book includes...Love triangleLove at first sightControlling partnerCheatingWriting:GreatUK AMAZON:http://www.amazon.co.uk/Collide-Volum...US AMAZON:http://www.amazon.com/Collide-Volume-...Like This Review...?To read more reviews go to my Book Blog:http://smittensbookblog.wordpress.com/Follow me on Twitter:https://twitter.com/SmittenSCFind me on Pinterest:http://pinterest.com/smittensc/'Like' me on Facebook:https://www.facebook.com/SmittensBook...