Awesome read!!!https://ladiikeiii.wordpress.com/2019...****I dumped a lot of spoilers into this review***We all trying to figure out who this Adam Price guy is when it comes to the five princes parents and Talia (mom) they all were in the photograph with Adam Price; it got me thinking maybe it Adena dad who knows until I read book 3.... to find out all the secrets. Because for one, Talia ended up in the same position as her mom “a car accident”.... but did her mom truly died. We don’t know because for one, Talia breaks were cut and no telling what she hit on her way to Finn house...I am still stuck on why do Adena hate her so much it doesn’t have anything to do with Mason at all because clearly when Mason was mean to her Adena was still coming for her... it has to be a reason; it’s either has something to do with this Adam Price guy or clearly Adena mom maybe...But I did figure that Elijah and Finn didn’t hate Talia as much as Mason and Cole did. Because I got that vibe before everything went to crap.... they always liked her; because I felt that they went along with everything Mason wanted until Elijah finally snapped when Talia came back... & him and Mason got to fighting which I liked because at least they finally stood for what they believe in no matter what Mason said.... plus all four are working on getting into good graces with Talia again. Not only that, I’m glad Talia and Leah finally started talking again and she’s (Leah) not bitter and mad at Talia for believing in whatever crap the princes had going on for her to stop hanging with Leah...With that being said, I cannot wait until they seek revenge on Adena and her crew because that girl was more horrible than the princes, though when I think about it, they are horrible too for what they did. But at least they stop. But for Adena to steal that notebook and drive from Talia book bag was messed up though I was waiting on Talia to drop the bomb on them for what they did so Adena thought it was okay to do it; thinking that the princes were going to stop talking to Talia but the joke is on her..... I’m just waiting for the revenge to bring Adena to her knees in the final book. Can’t wait to read it too...