‘If I had to be marooned, I’m glad it was with you.’Bust out the tweed and toast your awkward roommate if you’ve got one, Emily Henry has a romcom for you. Sometimes, just when it feels like smooth sailing on the raft you call a life, an unexpected fucker of a wave smashes your plans to splinters and send you off course and adrift. Such is the case for Daphne in Emily Henry’s charming new novel,Funny Story, whose life has been shipwrecked upon the shores of a Lake Michigan vacation town with the ex of her ex’s new fiance. You read that right, and these mutual exes are such a smart match they are practically named after each other, Peter and Petra, so out with the tweed and in with the twee I suppose. But, as Daphne learns, sometimes a shipwreck can be a new start to something more beautiful. One of this books biggest strengths in allowing the narrative to wade through sorrows to create a portrait of adults discovering how to carry their own baggage and how their interactions with others are affected by it with a lot of the drama not being a miscommunication trope, per say, but more people tripping themselves up into confirmation bias based on their own personal traumas. It has some grit that grounds the otherwise breezy narrative and the real love story is learning to love oneself in order to love and be loved. It does wrap up a bit overly idyllic but honestly, I felt the biggest cracks in the veneer of the story was when it tried to make things happier than it probably needed to be but I understand why that is the case. With her signature witty banter, wry humor, and characters that are easy to fall in love with as they fall apart and into love themselves,Funny Storyis a endearing tale about picking up the pieces only to discover oneself amidst the wreckage, learn to be yourself for yourself, and find a love where you least expect.‘The same universe that dispassionately takes things away can bring you things you weren't imaginative enough to dream up.’Alright let’s talk about love and stuff (surprise: the “stuff” is trauma!) I foundFunny Storyto read as a much quieter novel than most of Emily Henry’s works, but also found that, coupled with a slow-burn plot that lets scenes and character introspection really breathe, to be part of what made it so endearing for me. This will probably take some criticism for being slow but my favorite books are the sort that don’t exactly have what most people call a “plot” soooo this was fine for me.Funny Storyreads more along the lines of the coziness inBook Loverswhile also being more successful than I foundHappy Placeto be. Having just readLynn Painter’sHappily Never After, I felt like this was a successful version of the many things that story tried to be (both books, however, have a thing about eating pizza being sexy which…ok…???) where the characters actually felt their age, the fake dating felt plausible, the third act drama was passably believable for the genre. It does try to tie up too many loose ends and solve all the issues and I don't think we needed that, but I suppose cliches are cliche for a reason and there are expectations in genres so thats more a Me thing. And like, sure there's a lot to pick at but also it’s aiming to be a fun book and it lands that aspect while also managing to have a dynamic look at how past hurts can haunt our self-esteem and hinder our vulnerability when trying to connect with others and that helped hold the story together. One person's breakdown is another person’s novel glue I guess? Wait, I think I just finally understood literature.‘You can't force a person to show up, but you can learn a lesson when they don't.’This is a fairly character driven narrative of self-discovery and trauma processing that just so happens to stumble into romance so having the characters be in their early 30s helped bring this to life. Also that everything sucks and they just keep having to go to work and smile because they work public facing jobs–I FELT THAT SO HARD. I’ve found in similar novels that the characters felt far too young for their ages whereasFunny Storycaptures being an adult but not having the stable career/family/housing/etc that would make one “feel adult.” It's a very Millennial narrative where jokes like ‘are we evil or just immature?’ to laugh off behavior felt very true to life and all these characters seemed to walk onto the page directly out of the sort of single, early 30s service industry folks I’ve known and been friends with. But it also positions the characters in the wreckage of their Round 1 attempt at adulthood where they can no longer pretend they aren’t a product of their past and have to weigh out how their past traumas and coping mechanisms have embedded into their personalities. Especially since both Miles and Daphne are still reeling from hurts caused by the actions of their parents and don’t have a healthy relationship to serve as a compass for their own (and Daphne’s father is still a source of constant disappointment). ‘I don’t want you to look at me like I’m broken,’ Miles says at one point and this cuts to the heart of how these character’s present themselves: eager to show they are alright while feeling far from fine inside and wanting to hide that.’It’s easy to be loved by the ones who’ve never seen you fuck up. The ones you’ve never had to apologize to, and who still think all your ‘quirks’ are charming.’Since so much of dating involves understanding each other’s defense mechanisms and unpacking how past traumas inform your interpersonal relationships, being able to be vulnerable is important to intimacy andFunny Storydoes well by showing how frustrating it can be to open yourself up at the same emotional places where you are currently bruised. Though, speaking of intimacy, readers should know Emily Henry is not a closed-door romance writer (as Ashleigh says it is ‘definitely not PG’) and while the sex scenes are fairly awkward here (I suspect the term “cringe” will get used in a lot of reviews) I think thats part of their charm as these are just…awkward people. Henry wrote a rather humorous article (read itHERE) on how to write sex scenes and the key detail she returns to several times is vulnerability and embracing the awkward, but also using the scenes to progress the characters.‘The scene has to change things. Because every scene has to change things.And that’s it. As close as I think I could get teaching someone to write (or rewrite) a sex scene. You have to treat it like any other scene, because that’s what it is…It has to move the story. It has to shift the emotional landscape. It doesn’t have to be universally deemed sexy (it can’t; people like different things) and it doesn’t have to avoid the territory of cringe (it won’t, for the aforementioned reason). It simply has to be true to the story.’While I’m not sure the scenes here really count as plot progression, I found the awkwardness that leaves the characters rather flustered and confused about their relationship to work as part of the character study that seems to be the focus of this book. Its a novel about finding yourself but thankfully its not white folks “finding themselves” by going to India or Joshua Tree listening to The Doors, its just getting high and watching action movies with your roommate and getting some “accidental” action of your own.‘She’s a walking fantasy and I’m a librarian who actually does wear a lot of buttons and tweed.’Learning to love oneself in all your faults and failures is difficult, but the joy in the discovery of what makes you “you” comes alive through Daphne quite well. The set up is pretty great and Henry launches you into it rather quickly. I do enjoy how it sort of mimics the set up inBook Loverswhere she gets dumped in a very romcom ending “I realized my best friend was my love all along” way like Daphne is the discard fiance that barely gets any lines and seems lame anyways (so I guess shoutout to anyone who maybe identified with Mark Ruffalo’s fiance in13 Going On 30?). This is just another incident in a long line of feeling not important in the lives of those who claim to love you, and having had an absentee father taught her a few self-defense mechanisms long ago:‘Trust people’s actions, not their words.Don’t love anyone who isn’t ready to love you back.Let go of the people who don’t hold on to you.Don’t wait on people who don’t jury for you.’Being free from a relationship she thought would sail her happily from life has also made her reflect on how she never really formed a solid sense of self and instead allowed a relationship to fill in all the blanks for her. ‘I always cleaved to people I love and tried to orient my orbit around them,’ she realizes, which was an attempt to ‘make myself unleavable.’ And guess what? They all left. But now she has a new opportunity to find herself in it all.‘Im not sure which parts of me are him and which parts are genuinely my own and I want to know. I want to know myself, to test my edges and see where I stop and the rest of the world begins.’Having also ended up in a Michigan lakeshore vacation town only for my supposedly “got it together” lifeplans to go down like the Edmund Fitzgerald (if you are from Michigan you are required to love the Edmund Fitzgerald and think of the Great Lakes like some fierce god that gives life but takes it away. Any museum is like “Science/Art/History/etc is so cool!” Michigan museums are like “the Lake is a cruel mistress who will kill you and everyone you love!”), this all resonated with me. Too much maybe. But I loved seeing her come to love it and find her own place. ‘I feel embarrassing pride at having become a regular at someplace new all on my own,’ she thinks about becoming a familiar face in a coffee shop. Can confirm that is a cool feeling when you feel utterly alone in the world. Good for you, Daphne, find your place.‘There’s no place on this earth like Waning Bay.’Speaking of place, Emily Henry excels at capturing a sense of place and embedding it into her narratives as if the local community itself were a supporting cast character in her romcoms. It helps, too, that her locales tend to offer plenty of comedic relief along with their atmosphere. Henry has spoken at length about the importance of “place” in crafting her novelsin interviews, stating that ‘I want my characters to feel like they grew up in the place where [my books are] set.’ InFunny Story, however, we watch Daphne as she has to learn a new place being stuck in a Northern Michigan vacation community, but it is less the way learning a place is about learning to better understand her love interest as it was inBook Loversand more about learning to understand herself. Luckily she is aided by her new roommate, Miles, who also had to find his way amidst this community after shipwrecking there himself (can relate, buddy). Henry captures these Michigan communities in highly specific and humorous ways while making it still relatable to those unfamiliar with them. Maybe I’m biased and Daphne being a librarian and Miles being a bartender at a cherry themed wine bar is just something I’d enjoy because I work in a library after having myself been a wine bartender at a cherry themed establishment. But aspects of Michigan vacation towns felt so true to life. I laughed at the bar named “BARn” which is so eye-rollingly Michigan. But also aspects like seeing a young couple that are ‘on a first date which might somehow be an actual vacation,’ or everyone having their “corn guy, jam connection or cheesemonger, or someone saying things like being on the water is probably what church is to some folks. But for real, if you need amazing tomatoes, I know a guy.‘A good librarian makes all the difference.’The side characters are great as well, like the younger sister who brings in a lot of heartfelt discussions on family dynamics in response to family traumas, or the single-mom librarian. The library aspects are a bit kitschy but charming and I’m glad Henry presents the very real issues of how much blatant sexual harassment librarians face or the random moments of extreme anger or weirdness and how we just…deal with it and move along like a blip in the day. I usually hate when authors add libraries or librarians into plots because it's so stereotypically twee or inaccurate but Henry pulls it off well. Back to the sister for a moment, I thought the age gap between siblings was explored in a pretty comically-true-to-life way and how it wasn’t miscommunication between them but just…lack of communicating at all because you just assume what the other person is thinking. Which, okay real. That plays into the third act drama as well where its less a miscommunication and more falling victim to your own confirmation bias and assumptions. But Miles is sweet. I really liked Miles, guys. Miles feels like people I've met, especially in my bartending days. Also a coworker told me they think Miles is based on me. He’s not, I don’t own crocs (shoutout to the cover artist for including that). Did he do something sort of uncool at the end that Daphne is understandably upset about? Yes. Not great. But also did it feel like...well, something you'd hear a friend tell you about why their mad at a guy? Absolutely.I also don't know if this actually needed a successful romance? Maybe that's just me but the aspect about loving yourself and existing outside the circle of your partner was pretty great and we could have left it at that.‘A second act I fell into, and the home that I chose, as much as it chose me.I can’t wait. I can’t wait for this whole world I’ve invited to surprise me.’All in all,Funny Storyis a sweet story of summer, libraries and finding joy in a new town and new friend. What I really loved about this book—even when it made me cry because Isobbedat the end—is how it just felt like people interacting with people and stumbling through their own issues instead of having some driving plot pushing people in directions. What I’m getting at is they felt like people instead of chess pieces for the sake of plot. The third act drama is done well too. Though when Henry tries to tell you that Michiganders refer to vacationers as “fudgies” for coming here to get our fudge (which is yum)...no we don’t. But the people from the Upper Peninsula DO in fact call the lower Peninsula “trolls.” Nobody in this novel says “ope” though, which is the Michigan noise for everything. Daphne should have said “ope” during a sex scene, I would have fallen over and then made this novel the State flag or something. Anyways, I enjoyed this and I hope you will too.4/5‘Family. The real kind, who will always love you, even when your decisions make no sense to them.’UPDATE: I totally bought the Emily Henry merch shirt for this book. Worth it.[Photo: Waning Bay Public Library Inaugural Overnight Read-A-Thon]