*****4.5"I WANT MORE"STARS*****{BR with Mel, Sharon, Tiff, Kelli, Jen, and Tera}I've come alive since I've known her. These last few weeks have been the most exciting, the most unpredictable, the most fascinating in my life. I've been enticed from my monochrome world into one rich with color - and yet she can't be what I need.I really loved this book!!It started off a little iffy for me but in the end, I freaking LOVED THIS!!!Yes, there was plenty that seemed to be a regurgitation from the first book in the series, but we all should have expected this. It didn't bother me because I have such a deep love for the characters and this story. I mean, I've read the booksFOUR TIMES!!! AND, I was one of those nutty fans who emailed E.L. James and BEGGED her to write the books over in Christian's POV. So this book was like an early Christmas gift to me. I loved that E.L. James dedicated it to all of us fans out there who loved the story so much and just couldn't get enough of it.We do get a more in depth look into Christian's brutal early childhood with his birth mother and her pimp. Then his early years with the Greys' and there were times that I nearly cried for little Christian. He was so lost during his youth that he even contemplated suicide, but didn't because he knew just how much that would have devastated Grace.The only issue I really had and it was mostly in the beginning of the book, was that Christian seemed to be the woman in the relationship. Always waiting for Ana to call, text, or email him. He couldn't even function during his every day life until he heard from her, and I don't remember him being this needy in the original books. However, once the sexy times starts,HOLY HELL, I remembered why I loved this man so much. The sex in Christian's POV is just as hot, if notHOTTER!!!Also Christian's early history with Elena is revealed and what I did like was that after he starts seeing Ana, he doesn't seem to be all that affected or influenced by Elena. He spends a lot of time ignoring her texts and calls or brushing her off quickly when they do speak.I found myself falling in love all over again with CG. Every time he would acknowledge that weird feeling in his chest whenever Ana would do or say something affectionate, I was swooning. I always thought of him as the alpha, who was in control, but really, it was Ana that had all the control. She was the one to break through his defenses and to make him question whether he may just be worthy of being loved.For those of you who loved the "Fifty Shades" series, I highly recommend reading this book. BUT, go into it knowing that this is the same story just with some added insights into Christian's past and what his thoughts were during his month with Ana. The book doesn't end how "Fifty Shades of Grey" did. We get to experience Christian's dark days of depression while being apart from Ana, up until just before they meet to attend Jose's art gallery showing together.I also heard that E.L. James will be writing"Fifty Shade Darker"in CG's POV too!!! I can't wait, and hopefully this means the third book will also be written in his POV!!