IndestructibleEmotionally driven, drama fueled anticipation the reader feels in every word, Harrison’s Wedding: A Steamy Rock Star Romance (Cruise Control Heroes Book 2) by Sian Ceinwen is Harrison’s perspective of events leading up to the long awaited wedding of Harrison and his angel, Heather. These two are so blissfully happy together, but the stress and strain of Ariana returning to the band’s fold as well as the launch of her fashion design, creates antagonistic drama that Sebastian and Heather feed off of one another with. Heather knows how to hold a grudge and Sebastian (for his own reasons) is happy to join in the perpetuation of the grudge. If there is any one thing that I maybe dislike about this book, it revolves around Heather’s character, her unwillingness to forgive. Although antagonism is expected to wreak havoc within, it carries a feeling of a heavy cloud of threat, just hanging over the band, while lulling the reader into a false sense of what the other shoe dropping might be.However, it’s not just a plain old shoe, it’s a monster-sized steel toed boot in the form of a surprising and tragic event that pivots this couple’s journey toward wedded bliss. To say I felt utter devastation would be putting it mildly. This has been, without a doubt, a heart racing, pulse pounding, gut wrenching and heart shattering read I just could not put down.Harrison’s spiral is vividly painful to read, the remorse is extremely palpable and his negative self-talk and shame is powerful, leading him down a very dark, twisted road of mangled destructive thoughts.The heartache left me breathless, with my chest feeling physically heavy as though weighted down and hard to draw in more air. Much like how I would imagine both Harrison and Heather felt. I could go on and on about this book, these characters, the ups, the downs, the highs, the lows, the joy, the despair, the fun, the sorrow. But before I give up all the goods, read this rock star drama for yourself! A compelling story and very well written, Harrison’s Wedding is not to be missed.Overall, in addition to all the feels and tragic drama, there are some light hearted, fun, entertaining and especially steamy and loving moments for Harrison and Heather. I imagine the author was not joking when she shared this was a very difficult book to write (for more reasons we’ll probably every know)! I fell for these characters as a reader from the first book and was devastated. I can’t imagine the level of heartbreak an author would experience. Despite all that, this book is a job well done and definitely a worthy five star read. I love how these band mates love and support each other, look out for one another while also unafraid to tell the other what they need to know or hear, not just what is wanted. And finally, best of all, an amazing, heartfelt and hard won Harrison and Heather HEA.I read an ARC of this book and voluntarily share my review.