Update 4/24/22: the miniseries is DELIGHTFUL!Was this absolutely adorable? YES. Do I need to immediately read them all? Also yes.Heartstopperby Alice Oseman is such a sweet and lovely graphic novel of two boys on the cusp of romance that will certainly give you all the feels and feel relatable for anyone who has ever loved. Seriously, reading this I was suddenly 16 again going through the bittersweet maelstrom of emotions of a first big crush and all the swirling feelings of euphoria and anxiety that come with it. This book is absolutely perfect, well aside from only being the first part of a larger series but still. Oseman perfectly captures chaotic, romantic emotion in such simple yet effective artistic storytelling that gave me chills and had me devouring the whole graphic novel in a single, blissful sitting.This book covers a lot of ground in this romantic set-up for the series. Charlie is a skinny runner who had been outed as gay and bullied for it in the past. Nick is a tough yet kind rugby player a year older than Charlie. When they are sat next to each other in home room, they quickly become friends and are enthralled yet sometimes confused about their emotions for each other. We have Charlie leaving behind an abusive relationship (TW: sexual assault occurs in this book) and Nick staying up all night Googling to come to terms with his feelings. Is he straight, is he gay, is there space for both? This portion really hit me and is a major reason why I love to celebrate books like this. I wish this existed when I was 16 and confused and needed reassurance that this was okay and normal instead of hiding it and internalizing a lot of shame. I wanted to be the cool queer elder and hug Nick and be like “it’s cool buddy, and there are many of us.”The late night technology scenes are some of the best aspects of the book. Oseman is great at showing the trepidation on sending a text that reveals your feelings and we watch the characters write something, erase and try again over and over (before, say, ultimately sending a heart emoji because this book does an excellent job and drawing out the will-they-won’t-they in a realistic fashion that keeps the romantic tension high and the reader flipping pages). Something else I found really effective is the way large conversations are depicted with a quick facial sketch of the speaker at the end of their speech bubble. It allows Oseman to put a lot of dialogue into a single frame and sort of recreates the way individual speakers are shown in, say, a group text. So much of modern romance blossoms in digital landscapes and Oseman does well by capturing this.The art is lovely too. It is fairly simple yet manages to convey a lot of action and emotion. There are multiple small frames of each page and Oseman uses the white space as well as frame size and things like leaves in the margins to convey passage of time, anxieties, action and current emotions in a really productive way. This is a work of art where all the individual aspects come together to create a feeling in unique and creative ways.Pick this up, seriously. Once you start reading you will suddenly find yourself at the end eager for more. This is a lovely and heartfelt story that feels so true and I’m so glad stories like this exist in the world today. I saw myself in both of these characters and it meant a lot to me. Thank you, Oseman.5/5