Sept 2023:Listened to the audiobook and it was even better 😩❤️Original:I always thought a short story couldn’t captivate me as much as a long-length book, but boy was I wrong. I was blown away by how good this novella was and now I'm obsessed with the possibility of more books set in this world.The concept of Heat Haven, a company that provides omegas with a safe place where they can spend their heats with Alphas who will respect and treat them right without bonding them was fascinating to me. I want to learn everything about this business and to read all kinds of relationships coming out of this place.This sweet omegaverse was surprisingly funny and I found myself loving all the characters, which is one of the reasons why this book is so good. It's charming and sexy and it hits on all the right kinks and character archetypes. It's just a really well done story and it captivated me from the start.Emily was an amazing main character. She was so friking charming and cute, and I loved how she had a secret personality when she was in heat. The fact that she didn't curse but during her heat she was dropping the f-bomb left and right was hilarious to me. And getting to read a female characters who asks for things she wants in the bedroom was so refreshing.But the main reason why this book is so yummy was Griffin. I’m positively obsessed with the charming fucker. If you're into the idea of a sexy alpha's first time with an omega and how he's all about her and so into eating her out, he practically lives between her legs... then give this book a try because holy hell, Griffin is a trouper and so into giving Emily pleasure, it was the hottest thing. And his dirty talk... *sighs in horny*Dion also joined Emily's heat and I wasn't sure if I was going to be as much into him as I was already into Griffin. But holy cheese balls, Dion is incredible. He was so calm and chill, the perfect convination to Griffin's intensity. And the way they bonded together and became best bros was the sweetest fucking thing. I just loved them so much! And Dion just wanting to belong and finding an omega to take care of... gosh what a cutie. By the end I was mentally begging Emily to ask him out lolThe ending teased us with the possibility of more alphas joining the pack and damn, I'm dying to read about it. This little novella gave me so much more than I thought a novella could offer. I'minvestedand I want more!