2 ⭐️ *sigh* I’m just so disappointed 😔"Call me a sick fuck, but I want to be her daddy. I'd teach her every fucking thing she wants to know. I'd take care of her and protect her and make her feel so goddamn good."WHAT TO EXPECT:✨ billionaire romance✨ she's a bartender at the sex club✨ he's her mother's ex and a widower✨ insta love✨ age gap (35 years)✨ keeping secrets✨ denial of feelings✨ dual POV✨ 🌶️🌶️/5 spice✨ kinks: daddy/baby girl, dom/sub, praise, brat, breeding, exhibitionism, spanking, rigging✨ MFF bdsm 'play' scene✨ grief/healing✨ tw: death of a parent, death of spouse/childMy Thoughts:I had such high hopes, but after that 75% mark, I just…it all went downhill for me. I’m really disappointed because I love the potential of Ronan and Daisy. But this book was chaotic, and the ending was unsatisfying. There were too many things that felt glossed over or wrapped up without much explanation.Buckle up because here's everything I thought was wrong with this story:***SPOILERS AHEAD***I never quite understood why Ronan and Daisy’s mom broke up in the first place.The logic wasn’t quite there. Ronan said it was because he was working too much, but then later on with Daisy, he says he doesn't need to work but only does it because he doesn't want to sit around and be idyl because it brings up painful memories and loneliness. Okay, so why didn't he just reduce his workload and be with Daisy's mom if he loved her so much? What was holding him back? This is probably the biggest plot hole that ruined any sense of believability in the story.Also, it was so fucking weird when Daisy said,“knowing that I fell for the same man my mother did made me feel strangely close to her. Without thinking about the gross parts, of course. I love that her heartbeat for the same person mine did, and that means something. Like she’s still here.”That is just so icky! I get this is taboo, so being Eskimo sisters with your mom is just part of that (ick). But what makes this completely irredeemable is that Ronan and Daisy's mother were in LOVE - like almost got married. So if the breakup between the mom and Ronan never happened, Ronan would have been Daisy's stepfather, which makes me wonder if they would have developed this romantic/sexual relationship later on. It was just all so gross, and I could never quite get over it.I had a couple of questions about Daisy's backstory.1. Daisy sold her mom's house and only has enough money for a shitty van? She would have had plenty of money for a nice van and then some. Also, I didn't understand why she wasn't just rooming with Geo or somewhere else that wasn’t a van and city park from the beginning.2. Where's Daisy's dad? She made it clear she was alone after her mom died but where was her dad? She talked about introducing Ronan to him, but there wasn't an explanation of a strained relationship.Daisy's incapability to remember to eat was so fucking annoying.She is a perfectly capable adult who has low blood sugar but for some insane reason, forgets to eat and randomly passes out. I'm sorry, but you don't just forget, especially when it's been almost 24 hours and your stomach is cramping due to hunger. But what's ridiculous is there's even one scene where Daisy is feeling weak and lightheaded and thinks, "I just have to get through one more hour of my shift and then I'll eat." Ma'am, your job as a bartender isn't saving lives. Go for a break and eat. This just seemed like such a ridiculous part of her character that was only added to create situations for Ronan to take care of her when it could have been done in a million different better ways.Something was missing from Daisy and Ronan’s relationship for me to believe they truly loved each other.In all honesty, I don't even know what they liked about each other to begin with. They have nothing in common besides both understanding grief and death of a loved one, but that's something a lot of people can relate to. . . I guess I just don't even see what Ronan liked about her so much.There's not as much smut as the other books, nor was it as descriptive or good.The scenes were a lot shorter, less descriptive, and lackluster. Sara Cate usually crushes this, but I was let down. Didn't even feel tingly once.Ronan is a pleasure dom, but we hardly see this.Unlike the other books, kinks are usually explained, but here, there's no deep dive into understanding exactly what a pleasure dom is. In the beginning, it's made clear Rlonan wants to take care of and pleasure Daisy for his (and her) enjoyment. But there aren't a lot of scenes that fully play this out to the degree I thought they would. Part of that is due to the fact the focus shifted to Daisy and her interest in impact/pain play. (See point below)Daisy being suddenly interested in impact/pain play came out of nowhere.Was it because she wanted to be punished for the pain of her mom's death or her guilt for lying to Ronan or was it something else? I'm still not sure. It just felt so forced - like the author was trying to add more bdsm elements to the story even if they didn't quite fit. (See point below)Daisy is into impact/pain play when Ronan is NOT. So, why pair these two together?Ronan is a pleasure dom who doesn't want to hurt his partner AT ALL, while Daisy wants to be punished. These kinks don't go, so why did they get paired in this book???Also, Ronan is NOT into sharing! So having the scene with Daisy and Eden pissed me off (see point below). But also the fact Ronan and Daisy continue to play with others in the epilogue didn't seem believable either. It made me mad that Ronan changed something so perfect about himself all for Daisy's sake. He should have been paired with someone who wholeheartedly wants to be with a pleasure dom. I volunteer as tribute!The scene with Ronan, Daisy, and Eden made me uncomfortable and feel so icky.It didn't reflect the safety and boundaries required during BDSM scenes.Ronan does not want to bring Daisy pain nor does he want to share. But for her sake, he brings in Eden to fulfill Daisy's needs. But no real boundaries were discussed beforehand between Daisy, Ronan, and Eden. It was all about Daisy. The entire scene he is uncomfortable and talking about how he wishes just him giving her pleasure is enough.Ronan should never have gone into that scenario with that level of anxiety.And then when he finally gets out of his head and pays attention to what's happening, he realizes Eden is going down on Daisy! Instead of giving a safe word to stop the scene, he gets frustrated and ends up banging Daisy. No good dom would stay quiet if something was making him uncomfortable, especially one who's been doing it for so long! The entire scene felt so unnatural and forced - like the author was trying to sell drama and sex all at once. It didn't work. And this is such a harmful representation of these types of scenes.AND WHAT'S WORSE, they never discuss Ronan's discomfort during this scene! I felt like Ronan and his desires were overlooked for Daisy's desires. I get that during this scene, maybe Ronan was using it as a coping mechanism to please her because he was afraid she'll leave him, but that's so harmful and again, never addressed.The main conflict being that Daisy kept this secret from Ronan was weak.I think their issues should have centered more on their age / acceptance of their relationship and maybe her actually needing money, so he would wonder if she really likes him for the money or for him. Like a sugar baby transaction turned real love story.Ronan's reaction to discovering Daisy's secret was overly dramatic and weird.He thinks, "Everything with Daisy has been. . . a lie." But I'm not sure why he's coming to that conclusion or what he's referring to. Daisy has money, so it's not about that. She loves Ronan and doesn't need him for anything other than his love. I'd be more freaked out that she's the daughter of a woman he loved, but again, how does that make their entire relationship a lie?Ronan forcing Daisy to prove she can take care of herself and be on her own was so dumb.Especially when they get back together 2 months later and all she did was move into a friend's apartment and start singing at a piano bar. lol. Like, WOW, she sure did grow up! Not. Also, this idea you have to heal and work through things alone to be strong is such a joke. Everyone needs help. I've personally healed so much grief and trauma with the help of my partner by my side. I literally couldn't have imagined doing it alone. So Ronan pushing her away when she just needed help healing and recovering from the loss of her mom just seemed uncaring and unnecessary. It was also pointless considering he immediately takes her back when she becomes pregnant. (see point below)Daisy's surprise pregnancy completely nullified any progress Daisy or Ronan made while apart - making the breakup pointless.When they reunite after 2 months apart, Ronan literally says he's not ready to be with Daisy because he hasn't fully dealt with his issues. But once they find out she's pregnant, none of that matters, which is wild considering they haven't really discussed the matter of having children! Instead, they get married, have the baby, move to Paris, and live happily ever after. It's as if the conflict to learn how to be self-reliant never really mattered, and if that's the case, WTF was the point of any of it?Conclusion:I love the Salacious Players Club series, but this was by far the weakest of the books.There were too many loose threads and unnecessary plot points. This story was overcomplicated, and the added drama with the mom and Daisy's secret hurt the overall romance. Ronan and Daisy deserved better. Instead, I wish that Daisy had a truly tragic backstory without any father figure so she wanted someone to take care of her; there had been no connection between her mother and Ronan; they would have built chemistry (no insta-lust); for Ronan to be domineering and possessive from the start; and for there to be no pregnancy.