6 Southern StarsSpoiler Free ReviewFilming has begun on Hollywood Dirt!For photos and info go here>>www.HollywoodDirtMovie.com!Hollywood Dirt has Southern charm in abundance and left me ridiculously happy and content. I laughed, I swooned and I welled up with emotion. This contemporary and VERY SEXY ROMANCE oozes personality, wit and heart warming emotions. Alessandra Torre presents a story about a Southern Girl whose world collides with a Hollywood Star, they're opposites in every way possible which is delightfully explored through their love hate relationship and the way it unfurls eloquently before us, warming us to their individual personas and their combined chemistry, which is impossible not to feel. The character development and story arc are sublimely flawless. This author takes the contemporary Romance genre and rocks it making it a story that will be adored by existing and new fans alike.Hollywood Dirt is told from the dual perspective of Summer and Cole with an alternating use of first and third person narrative, a style I highly appreciate making the voice of the protagonist's loud, clear and individual. There are so many touches of brilliance, story devices, nuance of emotion, themes.... feelings..... laughter, I became so happy at one point that it made me well up with tears. It’s a wonderful, wonderful story and my favorite read of the year so far. This book, to sum up my thoughts, would make the most PERFECT CHICK FLICK film. I hope one day someone makes this happen! Their banter is fresh and charming. I love the addition of the gossip as a device to provide contextual information and an aid to move the story arc forward, as well as providing an authentic small town feel to the story. I love the back story of the portrayed Southern Town steeped in parts with historical truth. It's so interesting with an iconic feel to it, and quite fascinating.There’s a moment I literally whooped for joy and then continued to bask in the scenes that Alessandra Torre was painting before my eyes. I was so happy with the characters, the protagonists and the secondary characters who surround them giving context to the plot, themes and emotion. I love the additional characters; one is a particular treat and had my heart. How can I describe the depth of my love for this story, there are things I simply cannot reveal, there are treats within the pages.... treats that I devoured and basked in... I had moments of feeling emotional in an overwhelmingly romantic way and moments of Oh. My. Goodness....simply because of the imaginative storytelling and unexpected story devices used by this author.Each time I read a book penned by Alessandra Torre I find myself on a unique and superior reading journey. Hollywood Dirt is light-hearted and sweet, traits I've not experienced from this author before. It had me laughing out loud with the quick witted amusing one-liners and inner thoughts of the protagonists and intelligent writing surrounding this enemy-to-lovers tale that’s quirky and effortless in its execution. This story is about the making of a film and I felt like I was watching one, Hollywood Dirt has a vivid picture perfect cinematic quality to it that gave me goose-bumps along with all the very best book feelings, the ones I crave from my romantic love stories.Cole Masten is famous in the extreme; a Movie Star personified who shows himself to be highly charismatic, loyal, charming and sexy. An Acting Hollywood Great who decides to put his talent, money and name behind the movie of a book that he loves and believes in. I felt his aura his masculinity and his stage presence.After his devastating marriage break-up he's advised to get himself to Quincy, to the film set and stay away from women.It should be easy.Cole in essence is the epitome of a gorgeous pin-up guy and it seems every woman highly anticipates his arrival, all but one, Summer Jenkins.Summer Jenkins is a 29 year old singleton living with her mother. She considers her life to be pretty dull, has a past she wants to leave behind and plans for her future. The beautiful writing depicts the devastation she felt in her past and made me feel completely empathetic to her emotions. I love her Southern girl thought process, her easy going pragmatic approach to situations she experiences with an equal measure of fire, grit and determination. She’s savvy, snarky, sassy with a feisty straight talking boldness giving way to many amusing moments showing her dry sense of humor and candor. She's nobody’s fool and definitely not blinded by the star quality of Cole Masten. Her self sufficient ways, harsh tone and strong veneer juxtapose against her romantic aspirations and needing something more from her life, her vulnerabilities shine through with a touch of self doubt that enriches the feel of the story exponentially.I love the way the histories of both the protagonists are presented. Shown to us throughout the story arc, particularly the history of Summer. Hers is drip fed slowly, creating a smidgen of intrigue about what exactly happened in her past? Between them, Summer and Cole have an array of emotions and vulnerabilities to deal with providing motivation and the perfect push and pull of feelings all bubbling under the surface of their love hate relationship that evolves as they navigate through a plethora of thoughts, feelings and scenarios all eloquently showcased in the prose and laced intrinsically into the story arc, causing Summer and Cole to invade my book heart with equal force.It would be remiss of me not to mention how very, VERY SEXY this story is.The sexual tension oozes from the characters as their love/hate relationship hots up and their chemistry sizzles through the storytelling and then lights up the love scenes. It's completely LUSCIOUS and made my heart rate soar.Alessandra Torre's stories are imaginative, layered and engaging. Hollywood Dirt mesmerized me from beginning to end with its fun, quirky telling and perfect levels of angst. This romantic contemporary will undoubtedly win a legion of new fans. I read it with a blissful smile on my face and each time I had to pause for real life commitments I was eager to get back to Quincy and bask in its Southern charm. I could have gone on reading about Cole and Summer’s story forever. I laughed, I shed an emotional tear, I had OH MY GOODNESS moments, and moments I basked in. Hollywood Dirt is undoubtedly my favorite book of the year to date and should be devoured by ALL ROMANCE lovers.READ THE PROLOGUE here--->www.MeetColeMasten.comAdvanced copy provided by the author in exchange for my honest review thoughts.