(3,5 stars)"You know, the thirty-six questions that make strangers fall in love? It might be worth a shot.""You´re not worried we´ll fall in love?"This is a two POV book, told by the POV´s of Grey and Ethan. It´s written in third person perspective.I really liked Grey´s fighter personality. She never bowed down to anyone and always questioned other people or called them out on their behaviour. I liked the tension between her and Ethan even tho it was more insta-lovish with both of them trying to stay away from each other. The chemistry was kinda there, but what lessened it for me was the constant misscommunication. I think it happened in three or four scenes that they just ran away from each other instead of talking. Trope wise we have Fake Dating and kind of age gap (if you consider 11 years age gap).I liked the side characters in this one, even though there were few. I especially loved Kamilah, she was such a good friend towards Grey. What I also really loved was the positivity between Nora (Ethan´s ex wife) and Grey. They didn´t drag each other down or talked bad about each other in any way and rather supported and uplifted each other, which I loved to see!I liked the plot of this book, the idea really seemed intriguing; fake dating in Hollywood between two celebrities as a PR stunt. I really liked the first half of the book, there were so many cute scenes; for example when she twisted her ankle and he had to carry her back to the house or when he tried to make breakfast for her. However towards the ending of the book there was a bit too much drama going on for my taste. It was also fueled by the misscommunication, or rather them not really communicating and it just kept going back and forth, so the ending dragged a bit for me.What I loved however was the commentary on paparazzi and press invading privacy, on crazy fans, on threats and showing the downside of being famous as well.Overall it was a really good book in the first half that just started to drag and frustrate a bit towards the end.trigger warnings: loss of loved ones, grief, alcoholism, drugs, dysfunctional family