3 StarsOverall Opinion:This was a pretty light and relatively low drama story. I liked both characters just fine and I was rooting for their happiness. I didn't feel like the story fully met its potential though. Something was missing that I just can't quite put my finger on. Maybe it was that they both shared their secret feelings with the other, but it didn't get as deep into the characterizations as I would've liked. I'm a sucker for college football Hs, so I'll probably continue on with this theme...but this was just an ok read for me.Brief Summary of the Storyline:This is Ivy and Roan's story. Ivy had been gone for 15 months working with a ballet company in Paris, and she returns to the college to bump into the campus manwhore the first day. He propositions her, and she shoots him down. He is instantly intruiged by her, and they keep on getting thrown to each other in different situations. After a while, both of them see that there is more to each one of them than expected, and they start an unlikely friendship. Stronger feelings start to develop, and they fall in love. There is some family and friend drama, some sweet moments, and life changing moments...but they get their HFN ending.POV:This alternated between Ivy and Roan's POV (mostly Ivy).Overall Pace of Story:Good. It flowed well, and I never felt the need to skim.Instalove:No. I felt like there was some good development of feelings into love status.H rating:4 stars. Roan. He took a while for me to like, but I did. Once he shed the tough guy, meathead, manwhore exterior he was a super sweet guy inside. He was all about the h and didn't care what others thought about it.h rating:4 stars. Ivy. I liked how she stuck to her guns and didn't let herself get swept up in all that is Roan. She was ambitious, and really sweet with him once she saw who he really was.Sadness level:Low. No tissues needed.Heat level:Low. I was expecting some hot scenes, and it just didn't happen. :(Descriptive sex:Yes and no. I'd say maybe 2 scenes -- other than that, there are just mentions of sex in the past tense.Safe sex:Yes. Condoms were used.OW/OM drama:Surprisingly lowThe h has an ex that wants her back (and he is a rival of the H), but this dies out pretty quickly and easily. The h has to deal with a few jealous girls once she starts seeing the H, but she handles it well and I didn't think of it as an issue.Sex scene with OW or OM:NoThe closest is mention of H taking girls up to his room(1 instance), but this was before he spent any real time with the h.Cheating:NoPossible Triggers:MildH was a previous manwhorestarted because when his dad divorced his mom and announced that he was gay, the H got a lot of teasing from kids that he was gay too. He started hooking up with a lot of females to stop the assumptions and never stopped He also said that he didn't stop because it helped release some of the pressures of being the star athlete. He and admits it, but he was completely loyal to the h once he started spending time with her. The loss of a parent to cancer (h) years prior to story.Closure:This had ok closure, but I wanted more (don't I always ;D). I would call it a HFN ending.How I got it:It came with my scribed subscription.Safety:Safe with exception-Does Nothave cheating-Does Nothave a descriptive sex scene with OW/OM-Doeshave the H pushing the h away (for her benefit)-Doeshave a ~1.5 week separation between the h and H-Does Nothave abuse-Does Nothave OTT sad parts-Does Nothave a HEA ending.