I mean, are we surprised?I truly did think this would have potential. But, I could tell you that I was 4% in, and that was when I started ranting to one of my roommates, and a friend I (apparently) got back into reading. I read this in less than 24 hours (not for a good reason), and my roommate told me it felt like I ranted to her for four days.I think that says enough.Love on the Brainfollows Bee, a neuroscientist who lives through asking “What would Marie Curie Do,” has just gotten the opportunity to work on a new collaborative project with NASA, a literal dream. But when she opens up to realize she is co-leading it, she didn’t expect to be co-leading it with Levi Ward, her grad school nemesis. But Levi being in the same building as her is one of her most minor problems. Not only did Levi save her on her first day in the lab, but the equipment she needed to conduct her project is also missing. To make matters worse, the staff isn’t paying attention to her, Levi is somehow becoming an ally, and she finds herself exploring these new feelings about Levi’s new alliance that has her questioning herself.I’ll start with the good.UnlikeThe Love Hypothesis, I felt like Bee’s support system did not feel forced, annoying, or frustrating. Her RA was a gen-z hoping to get into John Hopkins and continue pursuing her education. While some of her dialogue sometimes felt forced (as if she had to act like someone her age), she still had a lot of moments where she was realistic, funny, and a supportive friend. There’s also Bee’s twin sister, who, although we don’t know much, we can tell they have a strong sibling bond. Most of their interactions are through the phone, but they’re enough to give us an idea of who her sister is. Here, the exchanges themselves didn’t feel forced, and there were no situations where Bee’s inner circle forced her to do anything. Ahn could learn a thing or two from them.And second, I was glad to see this actually take place in a STEM-related location, specifically a lab to conduct the NASA project.Along with science terms used in every chapter’s title, Levi and Bee’s interactions are primarily in the lab. There are also other scientists, whether working on the same projects as Levi and Bee or not, and a clear representation of who is who. There is a lot of political dialogue hidden through romance and comedy (or an attempt, I guess). We see the gender gap between men and women in STEM, the easiness for men, how women are treated, and the general implications of how much more difficult it is for women.Still, I didn’t necessarily like this. More like,appreciated.And now the bad.The writing ofLove on the Brainisn’t any better thanThe Love Hypothesis. In fact, it felt worse. I don’t pay close attention to perspectives, and I’m not the type of person to not read a book because of it, but this is why the first person is tricky. Granted, if you don’t care much about Bee from the beginning, I think this will be a problem throughout the story because Bee’s voice felt sloppy, childish, and immature, as if Bee were talking to us. Sometimes it felt like I was reading multiple diary entries Bee wrote, which felt very in character because of her few immature tendencies. Unfortunately for me, I wasn’t a fan of her from the beginning, so I was dragging myself as I was reading more than 300 pages of boring characters.LikeThe Love Hypothesis, this lacked a lot of depth. There are a lot of plot devices the author inserts into the book but does not elaborate on them.Since we’re pretty much told everything and shown almost nothing, there are many things the reader is told that add nothing to the story due to zero detail provided to make a theory, add a thought, or understand a point.There’s the example of Levi, who has been going to therapy for years because he grew up in a pretty uncommunicative and not necessarily healthy family environment. He’s now a 32-year-old engineer conducting a massive project at NASA. Yet, there is no further detail on this aspect, which is very unfortunate because the author had the opportunity to provide some sort of awareness for an issue that is pretty big around the world. In other words,the addition of a man who goes to therapy can be a crucial point in a STEM book released in 2022. Yet, it’s weak when you only do it to add a personality or character trait for a character already missing unique characteristics about him.He still lets his parents speak over him, dictating what he should be doing instead of wasting his time or whatnot.I mean, the fact that Bee stood up for him felt rather comical than uplifting.Unwilling to stand up for himself, the scene with his family felt entirely irrelevant to the story. I believe replacing it with a scene about Levi opening up more or talking about himself more to understand better where he comes from could have provided a solid addition to get a different interpretation of him. With the lack of backstory, it can be difficult to understand his actions and interpretations of the world, including his closed feelings for Bee that he hides with a cold glance and supposed hate towards her because he can’t communicate his emotions well. Furthermore, Bee is the kind of character who makes herself the victim. When Levi is opening up himself a little to Bee, telling her more about how his family is and how uncommunicative they are, Bee’s thoughts drift to her sayinghe at least has a family to hold on to,meaning at least he has someone and that he should be thankful because she doesn’t. This wasn’t the first time Bee came off as selfish and rude, as if she’s the only one struggling.I’m not asking for an entire backstory on both characters. Still, there is so little personality on both of them that it feels like I don’t know either character well enough to form an opinion. I still think the author copied and pasted a lot from her debut novel to this, such as how Levi feels like Adam, and Bee feels like Olive. There wasn’t anything new presented for either character, and it felt like I was reading a cardboard copy of both of them. There is also the the amount of inner monologue Bee spends commenting on how big, broody, and hot Levi is (I even tried highlighting all the scenes, but I probably missed some), which is also what Olive did in TLH all the time. One or two times is enough, but commenting on it all the fucking time on every occasion that Bee sees Levi is entirely unnecessary, annoying as fuck, and even astonishing.Do you notice someone’s physique and general physical features THAT much?The sex scenes, while there are three instead of one, were still horrendous, giving second-hand embarrassment, and similar in terms of semantics and getting them there. Bee also said Levi is big, to which he responds, “You’ll get used to it.” The author really said COPY AND PASTE! There’s also how this is described as enemies to lovers or nemeses to lovers, and Levi is described as grumpy, yet those two are not the case. At all. I’m not even going to bother going into detail about how this wasNOTenemies to lovers at all or I will drain myself from my constant disappointment.And now, this is where it gets tricky for me.Levi’s pining that we don’t see from his perspective but are still aware of can be considered of the best parts about this.Clear visuals were evident in how Bee described him, whether through his reactions, inwardly and outwardly, or messages with Bee (who both don’t know who they are). Oblivious to the fact that he likes her, Bee’s inner monologue is formed of intrusive thoughts towards Levi, unknown that Levi is acting the way he is not because she’s unpleasant to him but because he doesn’t know how to be around her. I repeat:CAN be considered the best part.However, maybe it’s just me, but I’m tired of the whole “he likes her, so he’s going to act cold around her and pretend he hates her.” I found it immature and childish, and Levi came off as a middle schooler. As for the “hate,” it was never there. It was gone with a blink of an eye. Between 20-30%, the two were suddenly allies and became friends. This had potential, especially since they were in the same workplace. The opportunity of themactuallyworking together and hating it, yet little by little, they start seeing more about each other, was wasted. Initially, I had thought it would be that way, where the two worked together, with the same equipment and whatnot, and they would slowly but surely start seeing each other in a brighter light. Instead, Bee complains to Levi again, Levi complains about what she complained about, and then he tells her he never actually hated her. Tension? Gone. (Actually, it was never there in the first place).Admittedly, I liked the friendship, and I thought they had a good platonic relationship, but this leads me to my next point. I wasn’t a fan of the romance at all. If the romance had more tension, I could have easily enjoyed this much more. I’m generally a character > plot type of person (Besides, who reads romance for the plot? Romance is the plot).But considering I didn’t really like both main characters here, grew heavily annoyed with the constant and repetitive commentary on the hero’s stance, and felt quite frustrated with the amount of depth missing, it was difficult to root for the romance as well.Personally, the relationship felt much more platonic than romantic. See, despite how romance is the genre I read the most, there are a lot of specific points I look for in almost every romance novel I read. Whether the story has the forbidden trope or not, I’m always looking for those tense moments that add to the chemistry: stolen glances, fingers brushing, hands touching. And if those aren’t included, I appreciate it when the author shows and tells how both characters feel (or, in this case, how Bee was feeling), so the reader can see how they felt. With this not added, it’s hard for me to know where the character is coming from because I don’t evenknowwhere they are coming from. There were hardly any scenes where Bee’s feelings were explicitly stated. Even their sex scenes felt like a friends with benefits situation. Their relationship is slow-burn, which I love, but it felt like they were still in their platonic phase because of how slow it was.This will all come down to interpretation and your form of analysis on how you see the relationship, as it always is with books. It’s a subjective manner. While it’s great that their build-up was slow, that slowness felt like it was still rooted in the friend zone, and therefore the attraction the two were developing towards each other felt like it came out of nowhere. Even though Levi already had a crush on Bee, Bee’s feelings towards him could have used further exploration. There are a couple of scenes where they go out, which is great because I’m always a fan of the two main characters spending time together to get to know each other, but again, there is hardly anything new we learn about them. And when we do, we’re left blankly.As for the ending, there’s a lot to unpack (but not in a good way). First, there’s another copy and paste situation, where a random action was thrown in the last 10% of the book as a very predictable situation turns itself in. Not only that, but before that, there was your traditional miscommunication trope added just to create unnecessary emotion and conflict in the story that could have easily been solved if Bee allowed Levi to show her he was serious. Then, suddenly, after the conflict, there’s the epilogue, which in all honesty, I already forgot. If I weren’t lazy right now, I would open the book and take a peek, but that’s unimportant. It’s irrelevant, just like this book.It may seem like I enjoyed this more than TLH, but I didn’t necessarily enjoy anything here. Personally, enjoyment and appreciation or like are different. While I appreciated and liked some things, I wasn’t enjoying anything. I recall pouring my frustration towards people in my social circle more than in this book. In conclusion,Love on the Brainwill most likely be another Booktok hit that breaks the internet, and people will shower these mid-20-year-olds and early 30-year-olds with praise that shows how low the standards genuinely are.ARC provided by NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.