Just a fair warning: This book buttfucked me raw without lube (~*spoiler*~ pun intended) and destroyed my heartand sanity. My feelings are all over the place and I need to vent. Cursing, spoilers and inappropriate gifs ahead.TORH/NO'ONESummary: SEXSEXSEXSEXSEXSEXANGSTANGSTANGSTANGSTA year ago when Ward announced Tohr was next, I got so mad. It was too soon for him, it felt rushed, he wasn't ready, she was fucking him up, etc. And sadly, I still stand on that.And on that note, let me clarify something: One thing is to accept someone you love died and to move on with your life and another is finding a new partner. You don't need to fuck/love someone else to move on in a healthy way. I disagree completely with Ward here. Tohr needed to find himself again, move on naturally, accept Wellsie was death AND THEN find someone else. Not do both things at the same time.And honestly, Tohr was a douchebag to her for the most part. He treated No'One with no respect, insulted her and used her. Grieving doesn't give you the right to act like that. And also: TOO MUCH SEX! If you know me, you know that coming from me is huge.The whole seasons thing was a weak plot device to be able to squeeze a whole year worth development into one book, when each book usually covers like two weeks top. We've been getting Qhuay little by little over 5 books now, when that's exactly what Ward should have done with Tohr/Autumn. Reading their developtment in 4-5 different books and then getting their own book would have worked better and more smoothly, IMO.But I guess Ward ran out of characters we currently care enough about to give a shit about a book with them as main characters. She's got, what? The Shadows, the BoB, Muhrder, Lassiter (who she already stated needs to happen AFTER Tohr) and, oh yeah... Qhuay. But I guess 4 books were not enough built up for them...JM/XHEXFirst of all, you need to know I'm completely biased when it comes to these two. They are my favorite m/f couple. Xhex can do no wrong in my eyes, I'm her bitch and will always be. I stan them so hard they shouldfuckingadopt me.I read spoilers before reading the book and knew they had some problems. At first I thought, so soon?! WTF. But it made total sense. In fact, I'm glad this happened because someone had to make these warriors see women are more than soft, obliging creatures they own.I still believe John is the worst and most selfish BFF someone could have, but he's one of the best boyfrands from the bunch of mated dudes we have in the series, IMO. I have a love/hate relationship with the handsome son of a bitch.XHEX (and the oppresion of men)Xhex was amazing, perfect, flaw free, better than your fave, best bias you can bias and the ultimate HBIC in this bookAGAIN.She stand in front of the whole Brotherhood and called them an"anachronistic group of misogynists", and very rightly so!She is greatly needed in this misogynist vamp society. You're mated and suddenly all the males look at your mate for approval to let you do shit?! Horrible dejá vù of women not being allowed to open their own bank accounts for example without their husband's signed permission. *shudders* I love the Brothers but they need to work on their close-minded view of females ASAP.Btw, during all her ordeal against theoppression of testosterone, where the fuck was Payne?AM I THE ONLY ONE WHO NOTICED THIS BS?The only female (Xhex) who seems to EVEN care about this general chauvinist behavior is constantly described as manly and masculine. Why can't feminine women notice this and FIGHT AGAINST IT, too??Are Marissa, Mary, Ehlhenhah, Cormia, Bella or Beth grateful and content their mates let them get outta the mansion and do appropriate work for women?!Marissa thinking "I'm so lucky, Butch is old fashioned but he never complained about me working" made me want to punch her in the face. You may not see it, but that's classic fucked up thinking for women in regards of their rights in society according to men. She is grateful her husband allows her to do as she pleases? Bitch, please. That thought should not exist in the first fucking place!And don't get me started on the needing bullshit. "Servicing", my ass.LAYLAJ. R. Ward has ruined this character for me, verily. I can no longer stand to see her getting any kind of attention from any male, at all. My blood literally boils and I want to smack her. It's irrational at this point.She possesses not a single redeeming quality IMO. You may be thinking, but she's selfless and lives to service the warriors! If that is the case, let me direct you to my previous point. Layla is the worse example of women embracing chauvinism. Examples:"Providing blood to males of worth was all that was left of her calling. All that she had in her life.""Let us do what we must. For the future."Those are just a few of the little pearls of wisdom she presented us with in this book.Qhuinn has been "educating" her for months to see life is much more than just servicing men and wanting cock, and yet she's still thinking exactly the same? Qhuinn, sts but yo wasting yor time, bud.Plus, is she dumb? No, seriously. I'm actually asking this for real. She's been in the mansion for a few years now, right? She must know everyone who lives there, right? Plus, she's been hunting for a mate so she must knowallthe males, right? And yet, she mistakes Xcor and Throe for BDB Warriors...? She didn't notice anything shaddy when Throe called her in the middle of no fucking where? Or when sheneversaw them in the mansion after weeks of waiting? She so conviently never asked anyone about the warrior she had fed, either.And then, when she finds out who they truly are she faints, she is in distress, she can't believe they fooled her... Oh poor,poorvictim of the cruel system. Note my sarcasm, please.She's already started to bond with Xcor (pretty hardcorely, too) and the first backbone she shows is to betray him and help them TO KILL HIM?! She's so worried about getting her servicing "job" taken from her, she's ready to sell her mum if needed. Not even once did she try to convince them of some way out for the male she's already fallen for.I'm sorry, I can't respect her. She's selfish, she wants wants wants and doesn't think of consecuences or other people's needs/feelings. She's so selfish she wants a baby to feel better, FFS!!!Conclusion:XCOR/BoB/LAYLAMostly: Meh. I'm sad Ward is going to use this pontentially awesome HEA storyline in Xcor and Layla, tbh.The BoB started a bit zzZZzz but after Xcor betrayed Throe things picked up pace and turned interesting.The gay undertones between Xcor/Throe, Zypher/Throe, everyone/Throe were greatly appreciated. Throe is the glue keeping the Bastards together, everyone is his bitch! :DI'm also thinking ex-Aristocrat Throe and Super-Aristocra Saxton could be fun to read!QHUINNDuring the first half of the book, Qhuinn's angst was so beautiful my heart ached for him. I'm not ashamed to admit I ugly cried when he got recognition from the Brothers.He is, however, a fucking dumbass. Can't deny the truth. I love him, and bless his heart but he duuuumb. He needs to grow so much to be able to reach Blay. And don't get me started on what a coward he is.Honestly, I'm mad at JRW for doing this to Qhuay. Not with Qhuinn.She made Qhuinn hold back his feelings because he thought he was not good enough for so long, and then she made him have a kid on a whim and change his mind about holding back with Blay on another.She spent 4 books building up his character, layer after layer, and it was so good!! And then idk, she went on crack? And ruined it all in a 30 secs decision. Just... WTF?Plus, maybe this is just me but... Since he is aware of his feelings for Blay now, shouldn't he bemoreconcerned about not hurting him? Sure, he believes Blay has moved on and no longer cares about him (convenient plot device nº56730367) but when you love someone you obsess over silly things, such as, oh idk, "I know Blay has moved on, but I used to hurt him with my whoring around. Maybe this still bothers him even when he's happily mated with someone else and I should do something about it"??Talk about not knowing how to properly pine for a person. Talk about dumbasses plot devices.QHUINN & LAYLA BFFsWhenever Qhuinn called Layla "baby girl" or touched her in any way, I got so mad at some point I realized I was projecting on Blay and getting all jealous and possessive. If I were Blay, after being mated, I couldn't stand the thought of that bitch anywhere near us. Sorry, could never work for me... Even when Blay is a fucking saint, I can't see it realistic for him to accept her in the middle of their marriage, especially after being hurt by Qhuinn's slutty behavior for years. Blay is flaw free, but his confidence is touching rock bottom when it comes to Qhuinn. There has to be an issue about this between them or I call BS.But back at the unpleasant subject that are Qhuinn and Layla. I guess Ward was aiming at "awww they are BFFs, how qt is that?!" but sorry, couldn't go there with them. Even Layla thinking she was over him sounded hollow and fake to my ears. It just didn't make sense with the rest of her behavior. She's pretty much the same after months of ~discovering the world~ and yet she has realized her feelings for Qhuinn weren't real?Bitch pleaseanyone else?THE BIG OH NO, YOU DIDN'THDY JRW HFDY doesn't even start covering it. She went there.She fucking went there.Already-bonded Layla and Bonded-for-3-Books-at-least Qhuinn decided the solution to all their issues was to have a kid together! Bringing a child to the world like it is a business transaction isnot right.The way she manipulated him into this was disturbing, too.“You’re my only hope, and I yours. … ”For someone playing so dumb about certain things (such as traitors) she was verily must cunning in convincing Qhuinn. She knew exactly what to say to use his issues and weak points against him."Let us do what we must. For the future."Oh yeah, the whole vampire race depends on you two! Now go populate the earth!I knew Qhuinn was a weak coward (see his relationship with Blay for examples) but my god, he went from "I will NEVER have sex with her to prevent that Fade vision to happen" to "A child sounds like a fantastic idea and that Face vision assures it will happen!" in less than 0.30 secs. *blinks a few times in confusion*Also: 1) No'One could barely talk when the needing hit her while Layla had a whole conversation with Qhuinn??? 2) Layla had been to the other side but not enough to get a free pass on the needing triggering??? 3) She decided to risk it and not freak out like the rest of the females *just in case*??? Pfffplease.And hey, WHERE THE FUCK WASPHURYWHEN THIS TRAIN WRECH HAPPENED?!They had isolated No'One and still, it seemed a porn movie was being filmed in the mansion while she was through her needing. And yet, when Qhuinn takes needing!Layla to his room, no one seems to notice or care enough to says "OH WAIT SOMEONE IS DEFLOWERING A MOST VERILY SACRED CHOOSEN DURING HER NEEDING, DANGER, DANGER, PREGGO TIMES, DANGER."In vampire age, Qhuinn is a fucking kid. How come no one stopped them from making this huuuuge mistake?! Even Qhuinn thought Phury was going to kill him and yet, Phury was no where to be seeing. Not before, not during, not after. Perhaps Ward is holding those ~precious moment~ for the next book?I should have been glad they were awkward as fuck after it and clearly not ~in lurv~, but my god, this is such a huge mess I can't even rejoice in the little mercies. And I'm assuming some people will be mad at Qhuinn for caring so much about her after it, but come on, IF this had to happen, he'd be an even bigger asshole if he didn't act like this now, tbh.I still don't undertand WHY Ward went there. I can't see anyone being pleased with this. Qhuinn/Layla fans? (Legit question: Do they really exist?) "Oh so romantic, they share a kid while they mate someone else." FRUSTRATED AND PISSED. Layla stans? "My girl deserves respect and a male who worshippes only her!" FRUSTRATED AND PISSED. Qhuay fans? Oh please, do I have to explain this one? FRUSTRATED AND ROYALLY PISSED.Conclusion:FUTURE DAUGHTERXhex:"But why would they want a young? That shit was crazy town"(There's a good reason why Xhex is my fave!)^^^ Only shade of light in this mess is how IMO Ward showed the whole thing as something negative. The undertone was something along the lines of "look at these two lost souls making a decision for the most fucked up of reasons". That's the only tiny positive thing on all this.This child is going to come to this world and be taken care of by a girl who lives in a fantasy world, unable to take care of herself, selfish and delusional and with a daddy so full of his own issues he's nowhere near ready for any kind of responsability.And hey, congrats! Your step-dad is Xcor! Woohoo!I wish the kid wouldn't exist... Well, scratch that. I wish Layla and her needing didn't exist. But Qhuinn's daughter? Sorry to say, I'm the biggest fucking sap in the world and I already love her. She's fault-free and part of Qhuinn. #noregrets #comeatmebroBLAYBlaylock is, with Xhex, my favorite character. At this point I'm only invested in his happiness and fuck the world. He deserves only the very best, and maybe at this point some people believe Qhuinn doesn't match that description (big surprise here), but Blay wants him and I want Blay to be happy, so I'm still pinning hard for Qhuay to happen.“I’m surprised … ” At how awful this felt."As that fucking chandelier twinkled overhead, Blay said roughly, “I’m still in love with him.”(GPOY of me while reading this scene)He broke my heart so much I don't think I'll ever recover from it. He is my most dearest character ever. And what's happening to him is so unfair, in so many levels. Maybe he's the character with the least tragic past or lesser issues, but my god, life is fucking him up royally over and over. When is it going to be enough for Ward's standard of tortured men?! Even when he gets his man, he'll have to share him with someone else. How fucking fair is that? For him, for Layla or for us."If he’d been able to, he’d have jumped up and torn that goddamn cocksucking light fixture off the goddamn cocksucking ceiling."If that didn't cover perfectly well the general sentiment I don't know what could. Blay losing it was so liberating. It was like I was losing itwithhim. About fucking time, too!SAXTONSaxton is a fucking saint. My creys. This male of worth deserves a good,long, thick cockhandsome, flawless male to service him for life.The fact that it was him who suggested Qhuinn should get some recognition for his brave actions was such a neat move. I can't wait for Saxton and Qhuinn to have a stronger family bond. #sapAnd yet... Why the fuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu- did he stop Blay when he tried to storm out the room? Maybe he was headed to Qhuinn's room to stop that madness from happening!!!!!! Am I the only one who yelled NOOOOOOOOO?BLAY/SAXTONBLAY BUTT-FUCKED SAXTON WITHOUT LUBE!!!!!!!Sorry, I *had* to say it. For a moment it was like reading a yaoi comic, where men always have self-lubricating bottoms. Hopefully this was an out of the moment thing and Ward knows this is not the norm for future references. Or maybe she pulls a "gay vamps can self-lubricate themselves at will *poker face*"…? You never know!Still, not enough details. I know, none HEAs don't get sex screen time, but hey, someone remembers that sympath bitch and Rehv? Hmmm... yeah.MY DEAREST QHUAY *CHEST HURTS*I'm actually so disappointed in Ward. I used to believe in her. I trusted her. 100% But she's been dragging out their story for too long and adding ridiculous plot devices to hold them back. Don't bullshit me anymore with "they aren't ready". They are and they were. You made Torh be ready and stuffed a whole year into a book to make it happen, so STFU and give us Qhuay already!Onto more fangirling comments: Qhuinn's physical reaction when his stare met Blay's was so intense I forgot to breath for a moment.And I guess we're going for full circles here. First Blay told Qhuinn he loved him and Qhuinn didn't hear him (very convenient) and now Qhuinn told Blay he loved him, and very conveniently again, Ward used John's self-centered character to mistake the tone and who Qhuinn was talking to, to cockblock Qhuay ONCE AGAIN.There has been so much cock-blocking between these two, I'm glad they are both males or they wouldn't know what a penis looks like anymore at this point.When Qhuinn was injured, they were so heartbreaking, so clearly in pain and longing for each other. It's exaclty what I needed. But then, Blay believes that angsty tear is because Qhuinn is in pain and is about to leave, Qhuinn calls his name and he ignores him?! You love someone, and no matter how much that person rejected you, if they call you like that in a moment of need/being hurt, you turn around and see what they want. No, seriously, stop with the stupid cock-blocking!!!!And yet, when Jane is like wtf at Blay, another cock-block happens with Saxton holding him back outside the room. Can we please be done with the delay already? Those are just weak, weak, weak excuses. And I'm tired of them.I've seen lots of people discussing what those two things that had to happen for Qhuay to be ready were, and my two cents are: Blay's reaction to Qhuinn/Layla during her needing, and Qhuinn realizing life is too short and you can lose your loved ones in a moment.WHO IS NEXTDuh:"As Blay started to straighten, like a message had been received, Qhuinn thought 'That's right, buddy. Our future has come…'"Side Note: Qhuinn, you stupid fuck, you just got a girl pregnant and NOW you decide to go after Blay?!!?!EDIT: March 31 2012"THEIR TIME HAS COME. 2013- NEXT BDB HARDCOVER…..BLAY & QHUINN!!!!"Note:The gifs posted here keep getting exceeded bandwidth with too many views. omg guise… What are y'all doing? :__)