The Rules of Scoundrelsseries has come to an end and I will honestly miss these guys. Such sexy leading heroes with great back stories. Did I love this one? No. It was decent and it wasn't a complete disaster like the 3rd book. *cries* Sorry Temple baby.*pets bulging muscles and strokes hair*Aaaaanyways, where was I? Oh yes! Georgiana and Duncan. They made a lovely couple, I adored Duncan. What a sweetheart who was a interesting combination of a beta and alpha hero. He made a worthy hero and his past history pricked my heart. I have a serious thing for jaded 'bastard' heroes who work with their bare hands to get to the top and never knew the comfort and security of a loving home. :( Rags to riches stories like this just add more appeal and dimension to self-made heroes and Duncan's story is truly heartbreaking. His back story and his quiet self-assured confidence and strength reminded me a lot of a Lisa Kleypas hero which is a big accomplishment and says so much about MacLean's ability to create multifaceted characters. Duncan had a lot of grit and heart. His reasons behind owning his own swimming pool in his house? Gah. That got to me the most and made me start to pay closer attention to him. That was the standout scene for me from the entire book.I really liked how this couple found a common ground and kinship in each other. Both having suffered something painful and shameful alone and found peace and understanding within each other. That was quite nice and a great balance. The quiet understanding and lack of judgement towards the other was sweet and a reminder of Georgiana's resilience and how quick she was forced to grow up, same for Duncan. Duncan was the perfect match for her in every way. The intimate quiet moments were wonderful, the swimming pool scene and him pouring his heart out about his childhood were perfect examples of that. I just wanted more of those grounded quiet moments.Okay on to what I had issue with and made the story lag for me:the writing.MacLean's tendency to repeat things was hammered down incessantly to such a degree I was tempted not even half way in to DNF this a few times. It took forever for the story to actually start, the first 100 pages nothing happens. Everything was boring and tiring with the endless droning on and regurgitating the same information over and over again. Information that readers already know about. What was the point of this? The number of times we are reminded of“She was a lady. The daughter of a duke. The sister of one."is insane. Was MacLean worried we would forget this? And this is just one of several things that is repeated ad nauseam throughout the story to the point it seemed as if the author was presenting it as new shocking information. But it's not. WE ALREADY KNOW WHO GEORGIANA IS. WE KNOW THEY BOTH HAVE SECRETS! Which comes to my next hold up: The secrets thing.Everyone and their mother has secrets in here and it starts to get muddled and really tiring with the endless merry go round. Georgiana has secrets (plural), Duncan has a secret, the villain has a secret etc. etc. It's the battle of who will upstage whom with the GREATEST baddest secret of all and who will win! Meh.She lies.He lies.Her secrets.His secrets.Hertruth.Histruth.One Fish.Two Fish.Red Fish.Blue fish....This repetitive pattern and the constant short stops in inner monologues is Maclean's signature style of writing, it's used for dramatic build up and tension I get it.... but the number of times it's done in here made me want to rip my hair out. >.< And I like my hair on my head thank you. MacLean tends to get carried away with the repetitive ruminations that just fills up pages and gets the story and readers absolutelynowhere. If anything it weighed down the story. Sometimes less is more and here it was waaaaay too much, more than usual even.Another serious gripe I had was howlongit took Duncan to find out about Chase's identity. I was honestly frustrated and enraged on his behalf. I'm sorry but someone as sharp, observant and intelligent as Duncan not figuring out who Chase is till the end was silly to me and made him come off incredibly dense for the sake of a dragged out plot. Didn't like that. I mean half way in the clues are stacking up and the obvious isrighttherein his faceand yet he's still not catching up. *facepalm* I mean...really? Georgiana standing in pants in theowner'ssuite with the 3 other owners of the club wasn't obvious enough?? <_< Gah! Poor Duncan. I couldn't wrap my head around how a shark newspaperman who's been a member of the Fallen Angels club and working with Chase for years didn't demand to see the elusive man himself way before this or at least try to investigate. It's part of his MO, he needs to know everything to sell his papers. The idea that a messenger is always used to contact Chase and furry messages to and from him should not have gone unnoticed by him all this time. Duncan's oblivious indifferent attitude about Chase's identity for so long prior to this I didn't buy for one minute and found it weak, contrived and illogical.And as for Georgiana's masked identity I honestly wasn't crazy about the red herring in here.Besides taking the name of the mysterious club owner, Georgiana also has been masquerading as Anna, the club's notorious prostitute who is the go-between messenger for Chase. Surrrrprise! -__- She puts on some face paint and a high wig and wears a tight dress and wallah! she's Anna. Still nobody has managed to recognize her as the infamous fallen sister of the Duke of Leighton? Really? Uh ok. And nice try MacLean but Georgiana's running life lesson: 'People see what they want to see' doesn't fly here. Nope. Weak attempt to cover a weak plot hole. The fact that Georgiana was dressing up as a prostitute but never actually played the physical part of Chase I found a little disappointing and a let down. I was underwhelmed by this revelation. This whole time I was assuming she was actually dressing up as a man, pants and all, right under the noses of the aristocrats and laughing straight in their faces but really is was just smoke and mirrors and nobody has ever seen Chase since the opening of the club. I mean...what was the point?I don't know, personally I felt MacLean missed a great opportunity here by not going all out. It was ALL there why not use it to your advantage? And I could have sworn it was alluded to in the first 2 books that the heroines met Chase in person but I guess my memory is fuzzy and MacLean worked around it by not describing him physically. It's the only explanation I can come up with since Penelope met him in Book 1. Tricky tricky author.Things did get interesting in the last 100 pages but again the flux of endless inner monologues repeating the same thing and h/hr asking the same questions and responding to it like it's new just got in the way of the momentum of the story and dragged things out unnecessarily. And I'm still left wondering exactly how old Georgiana's teenage love Johnathan was? He's repeatedly referred to as'the man who betrayed her, 'the man who stole her happiness'..etc.Um...what man? He came across as a careless prepubescent horny stable boy who seduced a naive innocent girl, nothing more. I don't know it just kept throwing me off and annoyed me how Georgiana kept building him up as something bigger than he was. And the fact that Georgiana's brother Simon, the Duke of Leighton wasnowherein this was a huge WTF for me. I truly do not understand the point of doing cross-overs between series if you do not actually USE it to your advantage. Arrrgh! Just why then? For those familiar with theLove by Numbersseries, you know what a big role Simon played in Georgiana's life and played a big hand in how she ended up where she is now. I was totally expecting to see him in this because of that. I mean...he gave her the gaming hell and took in Caroline, come on. :( SMH.Overall a decent wrap up to a fun series. Blunt honesty: I really feel this series lost it's potential after Book 2. I don't know what happened but to go from Cross and Pipa's deliciously-thrilling, exciting, angsty story to this does make me scratch my head and wonder what happened. For new readers: this is definitely NOT a stand alone book, I recommend reading this series from the beginning. I hope this means MacLean has something up her sleeve for a new series. I don't know about anyone else but I was very intrigued and curious by the quiet quick-witted wallflower Lady Sophie who Georgiana championed and sent the 'handsome as sin' rake Lord M to dance with her. Hmmm...spin-off anyone? I wish. I hope... ;)