I had the pleasure of reading the book prior to One Bad Idea, One Good Crash. If you have the opportunity to read that book, then you received a different perspective in this book. It isn’t necessary to read One Good Crash, but this book makes more sense if you had. This book follows Cassidy’s (the h from One Good Crash) best friend, Allie. Allie has come to rescue Cassidy in Florida after a disconcerting call. On arriving to the house where Cassidy was last found, Allie meets Jaden, the brother of the H from One Good Crash. Jaden is odd and exasperates Allie from the start. He is brash, confusing, and odd. Unfortunately, they are forced to continue to confront each other because Jaden’s brother, Jax, offers Allie a job as a personal assistant...to Jaden. From there, sparks fly. And an arrangement is made. Can two people who seem to detest each other fall for each other? That is the premise of One Bad Idea.When you read a Sabrina Stark book, you are reading a dialogue book. I know when I read One Good Crash I found myself overwhelmed by the back and forth of the characters. However, it is part of Stark’s charm as a writer. This continues in this book.There is a constant push and pull between Allie and Jaden. At times, it can be frustrating because you don’t feel “let in” to the exchange. However, if you stick with you, you eventually see the chemistry between the two characters.Jaden is seemingly annoying from the outset. In fact, no one except maybe his brother Jax seem to like him. However, it’s a bit of a front, and his true nature is revealed eventually. Once it’s revealed, you will fall in love with him. You will have to read for quite a bit before it’s revealed, but once it is, it’s one of the best parts of the book.Allie is a typical h in an enemies-to-lovers tale. Her feelings change at the spur of the moment, and the reader must wait for the revelation of Jaden’s true character for her to finally accept him. It can be frustrating at times waiting for her to figure it. However, Allie is an amazing friend to Cassidy, and she’s the perfect match for Jaden. She is the “yin to his yang.”If you like the enemies to lovers trope or a love-hate relationship that ends with an HEA, then you will enjoy One Bad Idea. Just remember that you’re reading a dialogue heavy romance with this book.