Okay. So, this was the first book I have read by Sabrina Stark. Therefore, I had no background on the Bishop brothers. That being said, while I would like to know more about Jake’s story, I never felt as though I was missing out on understanding Jax, Jaden, or Cassidy’s stories. This story follows Jax and Cassidy. Jax and Jaden are billionaire brothers, and Cassidy is a young woman struggling to find her path while dealing with a selfish, self-absorbed mother. Jax and Cassidy meet when Cassidy believes she causes Jax to crash a very expensive car. Jax intuits fairly quick that Cassidy’s mother (also involved in the lead up to the crash) has darker intentions for her daughter. He decides to save her, and he brings her into his life. Over a short period of time, they connect, and you will need to read the book for the rest of the story.Here is the thing about Sabrina Stark as I see it: she loves snappy dialogue. If you are one who might become frustrated with characters saying a lot about a little, then you will not want to read this book. However, if you love a quick tête-à-tête between characters, a hero who loves deeply, and a strong chemistry between the H/h, then you will love this book.Jax inhabits the typical alpha male saves the woman role. He seems to love Cassidy fairly quickly and works hard to make her life easier. Even though he does this in an underhanded way, given Cassidy’s inability to move beyond her past, his method is understandable.Now, Cassidy is the difficult one for me. She is so naive about her mother. And it’s understandable to a point. Her mother and her mother’s friend, Tabitha, consistently take advantage of Cassidy, and she tacitly approves of it. It is Jax’s love for her that finally allows her to recognize her mother’s inability to give her an unconditional love. He is th only one who finally loves her enough to let go of her past.Overall, this story grabbed me and kept me reading. Again, if you like quick repartee, you will appreciate the style of this book, and Jax will be your new book boyfriend.