This was another easy read and a cute addition to theWith Me in Seattleseries. I really enjoyed it!After getting several glimpses of Will throughout the past books I was really looking forward to getting the youngest Montgomery brother’s story. Especially after seeing the epic DENY Meg gave him at the end of the last book. Ha, poor Will, he definitely wasn’t expecting that. Don’t worry, Will is definitely not lacking in self-confidence…"When I take you, you’ll know exactly what we’re doing, what you’re feeling, and I won’t stop until your legs are shaking and the neighbors know my name.”This book is told mostly in Megan’s POV, but there are a few surprise scenes/chapters in Will’s POV – Yay! Meg was a rock chick in her college years when she became friends with Natalie and Jules, but she is now a pediatric nurse in the cancer care unit. Her and Will cross paths now that she’s rekindled her friendship with his sisters, but that’s not the only connection Meg has to Will. For years, she’s been putting in requests to have the Seahawk football star come visit her kids and the hospital, but has been continuously denied. This has no doubt left a bad taste in her mouth and fed her thoughts that he’s just a self-centered athlete.After a hot bathroom run-in, they both know they have an undeniable pull toward each other, but Meg isn’t going to let Will off that easily. She really makes him prove himself because she is not interested in being another football groupie to him. It’s really clear to everyone but Meg just how determined Will is to have a relationship with her. And in true Kristy Proby style, the man isn’t afraid to lay it all out there rather quickly.“What, exactly, do you think I’m trying to pursue here, Megan? If I just wanted to fuck you and bail, I would have backed off as soon as you told me no at my sister’s party.” He shakes his head and pushes his pizza away.“I just…” I begin, but he interrupts me, not hearing me.“Yes, it’s early, but fuck Megan, all I do is think about you. You’ve gotten under my skin. I want to learn your body. I want to know what it feels like to sink inside of you.” He swallows hard and so do I as I squeeze my thighs together and feel myself go wet.“But I also want to know what makes you laugh. What pisses you off. What you’re passionate about. I just want to learn everything about you. You’re in my head, and I haven’t felt this way in a long time. Jesus, I don’t give shout-outs to women during every game for fuck sake.”I have to say, I LOVE Will! He is so much fun and at times comes off arrogant, but he has the biggest heart. Megan didn’t come from an amazing family like Will’s so she has some understandable walls up. Her mom is absolutely awful. She’s a junkie, a leech, just the worst. Meg grew up without any support or love and moved through many foster homes before finally becoming emancipated at 16. She’s used to people letting her down and leaving so it’s a big issue in her relationship with Will to let him in completely.God, there’s just so much running through me. So much in my head. I’m so sad about […], and afraid of losing Will, yet afraid of loving him too. And I’m so fucking tired of being afraid of losing something, someone, important to me.Will continues to prove himself and is incredibly patient with her, even when I wanted to smack her. He understands Megan without her having to explain things to him and it broke my heart at times.“Will, you scare the fuck out of me.” His eyes widen briefly, and then he exhales and closes them. He chuckles softly as he leans in and rests his lips against my own. “Megan, you exasperate me, and turn me on, and make me crazy.” He kisses me softly, brushing his lips across mine, and gently combs his fingers through my hair. “Don’t you see what I feel for you? Can’t you feel it when I make love to you? The way I look at you? Jesus, Meg, you’re all I see. You’re all I want.”I really liked how everything progressed and how Megan's rocker tie-ins played out. I liked that Meg made Will work for it, so there is a reprieve from the sex scenes toward the beginning. It’s typically of this series to have a TON of them, and I have to say even though they are steamy, I find myself skimming them sometimes because there areatleastone in just about every single chapter. I say this every time, but I love getting more of the family together and this book was no exception. It just got BETTER! Put Jules, Natalie, Samantha, Brynna, and Megan completely shit faced in a car with the brothers Caleb and Matt and you get a recipe for some HILARIOUS inappropriate moments. I felt so bad for those two boys listen to their sisters (for the most part) talk about sex and orgasms. LOL!I’m looking forward to diving into the next book soon. I’m looking forward to some hot, sexy rocker in Leo (Meg’s adoptive brother) and Samantha, who I think is a total bitch but I kind of like her even more so because of that. They’ve already had a few verbal spats and I think it could be a good sign of awesome banter to come!