I received a copy of this book via BookSirens. All thoughts and opinions are my own.✅ Addictive book✅ Omegaverse and shifters✅ Strong and badass MC✅ Smut andveryslow-burn✅ Hate-to-"I am obsessed with you but hide it" relationship✅ Snark and sass✅ Worldbuilding✅ Pace and action✅ Plot❗️❗️ Kind of cliffhanger❗️❗️ Trigger warnings: physical abuse, torture, blood_______________________Third read/listen:This one is officially on my “guilty pleasure” list. Objectively, this was more of a 4-star book, but the fact that I was completely sucked in and finished it in a few hours every time I read it justifies giving it a 5 stars rating. It has this addictive quality to it, and I don't even want to try resisting it. I LOVE THIS SERIES.There are some convenient parts to the plot, but this book just has this addictive quality that makes you forget the details that make less sense so you can just sit, relax, and enjoy the wild ride._______________________The shifter realm was a cold, barren place. It felt even colder and more miserable when you were two null servants under a beta’s thumb.It was a tale as old as time. The servant on her knees, covered in blood, with the master enraged above her.But I always liked the darker books—where the servant killed the master and bathed in his blood.Sadie and her younger sister Lucinda are orphans. They were abandoned at Dick’s tavern when they were young kids, and while Dick liked Lucinda, he always had something against Sadie and beat her often. Sadie is now 20 years old, full of scars and trauma, and after all those years of being nothing more than Dick’s slave, she finally has an opportunity to leave when she is tested on her 20th birthday and discovers that she is an alpha. The first female alpha ever. Sadie is then forced to train with 3 other alphas and to take part in a war against the fae Queen who wants the shifters' lands. If the war and fae monsters do not kill her first, it might very well be the 3 gorgeous, but hateful alphas she now has to live with.The shifter realm had two classifications of people.In the bottom tier were null shifters, who were unimpressive and made up the majority of the population. The realm had about fifty thousand people, and 99 percent of them were nulls.That was us.In contrast, the top tier consisted of ABOs.Betas were the most common ABO. They were the realm’s soldiers. Stronger and faster than nulls, they had extended lifetimes but couldn’t shift. Dick was one of them.Alphas were the coolest ABOs. They were the realm’s war generals, huge and immortal, and each one shifted into a unique beast of lore.Finally, omegas were highly revered and immortal. They shifted into small, harmless creatures, but stories said they were physically perfect and alphas were obsessed with them.I like this new take on the shifters and Omegaverse.There is the usual classification of Alpha, Betas, and Omegas, with the Alphas being the leaders and war generals, the Betas being the enforcers and the Omegas being the rarest shifters. There are also nulls who are another category, they are the "regular" humans. There is a little twist though: the alphas can shift into a beast form that varies for each person. The alphas and omegas are also immortal, while the betas have an extended life span and the nulls have a regular life span.There is also more than one realm, the two main realms in this book are the Shifter realm and the Fae realm. A few portals connect them, and those portals are the places where the soldiers and alpha generals are situated because it's where the fae monsters enter the shifter realm to wreak havoc.I’d dealt with Dick my whole life. There was no room left in my miserable existence for bullies.New life motto: anyone who bullied me was getting shanked.Hard.Sadie is an awesome main character. She is strong, and so resilient!It was impressive to see what she went through and how she remained strong and determined to have others respect her, in between bouts of nihilism and dark sarcasm. She has her down moments, but she is not one to let others step on her toes, and she also has very colorful language when she is pissed (but she knows how to pick her battles and when just to let go and ignore others). She is snarky and I adored her strength and her interactions with the alphas. She takes no shit from them, and she does not care if they are happy or not with her, she does what she wants now that she is finally free from Dick.It was a good mix of a badass main character who can hold her own, but who also ends up being in dire situations where she needs the alpha to help or rescue her.Just enough to bring out the protective (and also possessive) side of the alphas. They don't want anything to do with her, and they don't want her to remain at the compound, yet they don't want her to be on her own, and they go crazy and become aggressive if someone else touches her or shows her affection. They will have to man up and admit that they care for her, or let her go on with her life as she sees fit.“I find it hard to believe you aren’t some spy for the fae queen. She’s been known to use her enchantments to play tricks and trap alphas.” Ascher cut at his steak savagely.Rage bubbled inside my chest, and I had to forcibly swallow it down. I didn’t give a single flying shit about the queen, the war, or other shifters.I was a lowly servant.As a servant, they gave me zero rights in the realm, but then they just dropped me off at a portal and expected me to fight for them. They were disgusting.I let my hatred show on my face. “I hate the fae queen and shifters equally. Why would I take sides?”Sadie had a tough start with the other alphas.First of all, they don't believe that she is truly an alpha since there has never been a female alpha before, and even when they realize that she is not lying, they let her know that they don't give a shit about her and think that she is a useless girl. The dynamic between the four of them reminded me of the dynamic between Lilah and the pack members inPack Darling: Part One, and that's probably one of the reasons why I finished this book in one sitting. I just love this mix of snark, angst, and strong-willed characters. Maybe I would enjoy bully romance after all? 🤔Apparently, the horned man was named Ascher.Also apparently, this new man had eaten his twin in the womb. There was no other possible way someone could be so massive.Three alphas are already at the compound Sadie is sent to: Jax, Ascher, and Cobra.Jax is the leader, the biggest, but also the calmest of the three. He is still a jerk with Sadie at first, but he actually gives her a chance to prove herself every once in a while and does not openly despise her... The fact that he has 5 younger sisters also forces him to be more empathetic and sensible I think, and I love his fierce protector vibe.Ascher is the newest member of the alpha trio, and he does not like Sadie. At all. All he does is bring her down and insult her, but at the same time, he is obsessed with her and does not know how to deal with it. He has had bad experiences with women and now sees them only as commodities to be used before they use him.He just stared back at me with his soulless eyes. Either Cobra had been born cruel or he had been hurt very badly.Cobra is the usual grumpy one who does not accept the girl and blatantly shows his disgust and hatred. Somehow there is almost always one like that in the reverse harem series I've read. I have to say though that he is probably the most complex of the three alphas, and even though he is cold as f*ck and an ass with Sadie, he's the one I liked the most. He is a very interesting character, and he kept me on my toes because I never knew what to expect from him. He is also clearly obsessed with Sadie and believes in her enough to let her fight against the fae monsters, but at the same time, he is the one who seems to hate her the most. As I said, a very complex, but interesting character that I hope to see more in-depth in the next book.It was still weird to me. Cobra was clearly unhinged, Ascher was a hothead, and I had a homicidal voice inside my head. Jax was the calmest and least terrifying of all of us.Anyone could see they were perfect for each other, two sides of the same coin. Both loyal and protective, yet one was calm and kind, while the other was psychotic and evil.Opposites really did attract.This series will be a slow burn, as there is no insta-love or insta-lust at all.Sure the guys are insanely hot, and they are a little obsessed with Sadie, but they are all a long way from being on friendly terms. Jax and Cobra were already involved in a romantic relationship before Sadie came into the picture, so this might become something that is more a polyamorous relationship than a reverse-harem one. Honestly, I would not mind it at all as I think that Cobra and Jax are a good fit together and I always enjoy reverse harem with polyamorous romances.There is some explicit smut (some FFM, MM, and MF), but it's not the most explicit book I've read. There will most probably be more smut in the following books as this is a slow burn, and the guys are just starting to tolerate Sadie, but I can't wait for more heat and spice between them all.As I said at the beginning of the review, this is not a perfect book, and I know it is a hit-or-miss in general. Luckily, it was a big hit for me, and I never tire of Sadie’s sass and this addictive and hilarious series.Follow me on Instagram🙂