::: FULL REVIEW NOW POSTED :::“The fact remains, the day will come when you will be a husband and a father. You will be a king. What will Olivia be then?”“Mine,” I growl. “She’ll be mine.”I absolutely LOVED this book!!It was a delightfully witty, heart-warming, and romantic fairytale come to life! It's the story of a normal girl whose entire world is turned upside down when a real Prince Charming sweeps her off her feet and into a whirlwind love story! It was the ultimate romantic reading escape and I just did not want to ever put the book down. If you're looking for a SEXY, ADDICTIVE, LIGHT-HEARTED, and SWOONY romance with just enough ANGST to keep your heart racing, this is it!!!Emma Chase is one of my favorite authors because her writing style is just so compulsively readable. It's fun, witty, and I always read her books with a permanent smile on my face. Her books just have no good stopping points and the pages just fly by as you read. It's a reader's dream and I'm always eager looking forward to her next book release.So the hero of this book, Prince Nicholas, is first in line to the throne of his country. Having lived his entire life in a proverbial fishbowl where ever little nuance of his life was publicized across the tabloids, he'd become quite adept at keeping the real him hidden behind a carefully constructed facade and living up to his princely duties.However, with the hold on his country crumbling, his grandmother -- the queen -- gave him an ultimatum: at the end of the summer, he would have to publicly announce the name of his betrothed to their country. In other words, he had five months in which to find a wife that suited his country's strict and archaic requirements.“When you were a boy, I promised your mother that I would give you the space to choose a wife for yourself, as your father chose her. To fall in love. I’ve watched and waited, and now I’ve given up waiting. Your family needs you; your country needs you. Therefore, you will announce the name of your betrothed at a press conference… at the end of the summer.Her declaration breaks me out of my shock and I jump to my feet. “That’s five bloody months from now!”She shrugs. “I wanted to give you thirty days. You can thank your grandfather for talking me out of it.”Meanwhile, in America, Olivia Hammond was desperately trying to keep her family's coffee shop and bakery afloat but was practically only one unpaid bill away from being shut down. She needed a miracle.But never in a million years would she think that His Royal Hotness himself would walk into her bakery one snowy afternoon and (after an apple pie to the face) begin to fall madly in love with her.“Would you like to have coffee sometime, Olivia? With me?”It’s been years since I’ve asked a woman out on a real date. It’s strange — exhilarating and nerve-racking at the same time.“I don’t like coffee. Never touch the stuff.”My eyes roll over the room. “You work in a coffee house.”“Exactly.”I nod. “Hmm, I see your point. It’ll have to be dinner then. Are you available this evening? I could pick you up on our way back.”She gives a jumpy laugh.“I thought you didn’t have time for” — she makes air quotes with her fingers — “‘wooing’?”“Some things are worth making time for.”That catches her off guard, making her words stumble. “Well, I… don’t… date.”“Good God, why not?” I ask, horrified. “That’s a bloody sin.”“A sin?”“You’re stunning, obviously clever — you should date often, and preferably with a man who knows how it’s done.” I rest my palm on my chest. “Coincidentally, I happen to be fantastic at it. What are the odds?”Needless to say her entire world was turned upside down as she was swept away in a whirlwind romance that took them both by surprise. Neither one of them ever expected to find true love but sometimes the best things in life come in the most unexpected of ways...However, falling in love with a Prince who was duty bound to serve his country had its distinct and painful drawbacks. And even though fairytales often idealize a life of royalty, she quickly saw how hard and stifling his life could be. Riches and power aside, the loneliness could be painful, the lack of privacy shocking, and the sense of duty above all else had taken a lot of the spark out of his life. Until she came into his life.“So you’re never just… alone? Can’t walk around naked if you feel like it?”I imagine Fergus’s reaction to my bare balls resting on the sixteenth-century Queen Anne sofa — or even better, my grandmother’s reaction. And I laugh.“No, I can’t. But the more important question is — do you walk around naked?”She lifts an alluring shoulder. “Sometimes.”“Let’s hang out at your apartment tomorrow,” I tell her with an urgent, straight face. “All day. I’ll clear my schedule.”But she was his one good thing -- the one thing that came without strings or responsibilities, and the one thing that he truly desired with all his heart, and it was up to him to prove to her exactly how much her love was worth to him...I found this story to be positively delightful. It's told in alternating POVs between Olivia and Nicholas -- and we all know that Emma Chase is the master of the male POV -- so this book was an absolutele JOY to read!I loved how much sass Olivia dished out to Nicholas -- Prince or not.“You must thing I’m completely clueless.”“Not a’tall.”“Am I supposed to curtsy or something?”“Please don’t.” And then the dimples make an appearance. “Unless you have the urge to do it naked, then, by all means, curtsy away.”He’s flirting with me. It’s a sweet, sliding, teasing dance, and more fun than I can remember having in a long time.“You don’t seem like a…” my voice lowers to a whisper, “prince.”Then he’s whispering too. “That may be the nicest thing anyone’s ever said to me… Now that you know, have you reconsidered my invitation to dinner?”I bet a guy like him — fucking royalty — is used to woman falling at his feet. Literally. And I’m not used to seduction or head games…“Why?” I scoff. “Because you happen to own a country? Like that’s supposed to impress me?”“It impresses most people.”And the dance goes on.“Guess I’m not most people.”His eyes sparkle… “Apparently not.”And even though the unfairness and ugliness of the rules of his country practically made my blood boil with rage, I was so happy with the way things worked out. I reached a point where I was genuinely MAD and needed either a major grovel or ass whooping to feel better but lo and behold my wishes were granted because SQUEEEEEEE!!!!! Holy heavens, just you wait til the ending!!! I could not stop smiling!!! It was absolutely PERFECT!!“The day will come when you will [be] a king. What will Olivia be then?”“Mine,” I growl. “She’ll be mine.”This is the first standalone in a new series of standalones. Each book is a complete story -- this one can be read alone -- and will focus on a different couple. I loved Nicholas and Olivia's story and can't wait for the next couple's story!Even though this story has all the makings of a classic fairytale with the prince sweeping the common girl off her feet, it's well grounded by flawed, intriguing characters and real-life understandable problems, and balanced out by a sexy, heart-pounding romance and Emma Chase's signature witty writing that readers around the world have come to love. This book is addictive, passionate, and positively delightful! A top favorite of 2016!!Rating: 4.5 stars!! Contemporary Adult Romance. Can standalone.Buy ROYALLY SCREWED (Kindle)Buy ROYALLY SCREWED (Paperback)__________________________For more of my reviews, book news and updates:✦Main blog: Aestas Book Blog✦Facebook Blog Page✦Twitter✦Subscribe by email