Just when I think these writers today can't get any worse, they always do.SPOILERS AHEAD!!!MCs were a couple in HS and in love though they never said the words to each other. Author portrays them as soulmates with a deep love but you never see this on page at all.So we start the story at age 18 with FMC attending a party in MMC's home. She goes into his Father's Office bathroom to take a pregnancy test which is positive and is shocked. We have a detail description of her taking the pregnancy test which included getting pee in her hands, etc (why did we need the details? Lol). Afterwards, his father (who loathes her) walks in and spreads some vitriol her way and threatens to go after her family if she doesn't back off from his son.Hiding in the room under his desk is MMC's friend who overhears the whole conversation and knows now about the pregnancy so tells her to go and talk to MMC because it's his baby too. He then leads her to MMC where they find him on the couch being straddled by OW.She then leaves the house and next scene is 6 years later in the present where we learn that they co-parent their kid (which she never told him about if not for him running into her accidentally after she gave birth & kid was 2 months old). However, MMC is tired now of waiting for her to come back to him so he decides to win her back as this is his last chance otherwise he is afraid they would most likely both move on with OP.So the brilliant MMC (being sarcastic here...) never knew that FMC saw him with OW or that his Father threatened her. When she walked away, he never went after her to find out what happened and why she broke things off. He was just hurt and thought she had moved on with his friend. We get the scene from his POV of what happened that night at his party which is that he was drinking all night and at one point the OW who was then his coach's daughter (he's a hockey player) gave him a vodka drink which he thinks may have been roofied so when he sat down on the couch, the OW straddled him and he immediately pushed her off him and walked away from her & his guests to go sleep it off in another room. FMC didn't see all this. She just felt that he betrayed her.Next day, FMC & his friend (the one who heard her & his Father) are sitting in a corner at school and MMC looks at them and automatically assumes she is now with OM so he puts his arm around the OW to make it look like they are a couple now to piss off FMC and thereby ends their relationship as lovers and begins a co-parenting only type relationship.Now in the present, 6 years later, we have MMC trying to make things right with FMC even though he doesn't have any idea of what went wrong and won't know for a good 90-95% because FMC doesn't like to share info with the man she supposedly loves. LOL.Fun fact if you want to know of his brilliant idea to win her back was to hire an OM to fake propose to her so that she could see that the dream she has of finding someone to grow old with is with him - not OM. He wanted her to choose him over the OM and of course that's what she did.Now make it make sense author. How the hell does hiring someone to woo the woman you claim to love and want back and have OM propose to her make her want to chose him? He is okay with the supposedly love of his life kissing, making out and falling in love with the OM? He is okay with the fact she accepted the proposal? He is okay that his kid may have loved the OM and gotten attached to him? He is okay that the kid's heart may have gotten broken when/if she & OM break up?This was BEYOND any stupidity I could think of that was ever written!And as far as any info in regards to the OM & her, all we get is that she he was nice, handsome and a great kisser but they never went beyond that but she did accept his proposal and was wearing the engagement ring at the beginning. Then we skip next page to her having found out the MMC hired the OM to pretend to propose to her and she wasn't even mad? We got no info on her relationship with OM if she was in love with him or not, if she was hurt about the deception or even how she found out and who told her that it was fake. I would at least expect a big blow up fight between her & MMS for the deception, but nothing....And since this is a 2nd chance trope, of course he wasn't celibate. In the first half, he told FMC that he f****d puck bunnies and I am not sure but I thought he confirmed this in a POV as well but author changed it up towards the end by telling FMC that he only f****d one OW after they had broke up and no one else after that. FMC of course was frozen. Celibacy & consistency is not this author's strong suit and nor it seems does it bother her characters either.....So after all that, we then skip to next page where we now have FMC moving to Canada and into a condo across from MMC for an undisclosed period of time, leaves her kid with her Father & brother and outside of 1 or 2 very brief appearances in the end, we never see them interact with said kid.So for 90-95% of the story, we have a selfish FMC who constantly pushes MMC away and only thinks about her own wants & needs. First she moves across from MMC into a condo so that they don't have sex as she wanted to see if they had anything else in common but she is constantly giving mix messages, acting hot & cold and acting inappropriately.Ex: Up until 90%, she stops him every time from having sex. He often gets her off but she never returns the favor and in one scene he even gets mad and tells her off how he just gave her a big orgasm (or two) and she did nothing for him! That scene is awful as he had a right to be angry at her and yet she felt no guilt at all. She just went to sleep.Then there were other scenes where she brought a male platonic friend to stay in her condo with her and hung out with him and even shacked up in a cabin with him for 2 days when car or weather prohibited them from coming home. MMC tells her that if it was him acting like this, she would be angry with him and he was right! Then there was the constant begging from MMC for her to attend his games and she kept resisting and hurting him for very lame reasons. All in all, FMC was a very selfish heroine who only thought of herself and I couldn't stand her!Somewhere in the middle we have OP trying to come between them, including the OW from the past coming in to break them up again, two OM who are just friends to her but raises the jealousy aspect from MMC, a mystery to solve of why MMC's Father hates her & her family, another mystery having to do with her Mother and how she is involved with some stuff and so on.Anyway, this one sucks lemons people and all the ARC readers raving about it are full of shit.