Good heavens. I have no idea how to even begin to talk about this book. It doesn’t help that I have no idea how or when or why I came to purchase it—so I kind of assumed it was some kind of … YA pirate romp?It is not a YA pirate romp.It is, in fact, the opposite of a YA pirate romp. Although there are pirates in it so I guess 1 out of 3 ain’t bad?Before I begin, a thousand trigger warnings for the book and this review, including warnings for discussion of sexual assault. And, err, spoilers too.As I’ve said before, I really don’t believe in the concept of guilty pleasures. I think there are pleasures. And there is guilt. And if you feel guilty about your pleasures then you should examine your pleasures and if you genuinely feel that you deserve to feel guilty about them … maybe find a different pleasure?This is book was, honestly, for me a guilty pleasure. Let me just say straight off, however, it is not okay. It is really, really not okay. It’s, frankly, rapey as fuck – and manages to be rapey as fuck in two subtly different and uniquely problematic ways. The first being ye old rape as a plot device chestnut, which also brushes up against rape as solved/answered by violence. And the second being the unquestioned assumption that rape is someone with a penis putting their penis—and explicitly the penis—in the vagina—and explicitly the vagina—of a person who has not given their consent to have a penis put in their vagina. Which is to say, the heroine is constantly getting rough fingers shoved inside her or whatever and both the text, the heroine, and everyone around the heroine sort of treat this as … like … rape foreplay or something? Instead of, you know, rape? Like, the nature of the object that is being placed inside you without your consent is irrelevant? But it feels like there’s a sort of rape scale where any object other than a penis is kind of “ehhhh whatever” but if it’s a penis things are srs now.Also if that paragraph doesn’t clue you in, this is one of those books where the heroine is basically constantly in peril and subject to constant violence—sexual and otherwise. And I think we’re meant to admire her strength and resilience for surviving this unremitting cavalcade of horror but I kind of just felt I was reading de Sade’s Justine.Other potential areas of not-okaynesses where your mileage may vary. While the book does go out of its way to emphasise that Black people existed, y’know, in the Caribbean, with the exception of one character who is a member of the heroine’s crew every other Black person we encounter in the book is a slave or a victim or, um, literally dead in horrific circumstances? And obviously the reality of slavery was horrific but it felt more like a backdrop here against which the white characters could demonstrate their virtue. Like the heroine gets herself picked up by pirate hunters just because she has a reputation for attacking slave ships.Because she is one of the good ones. Cough.The other thing that was kind of weird to me is the book’s attitude to and portrayal of … well … queerness? Like, something I was massively massively here for was the fact the heroine has two dudes who LOVE HER BEYOND REASON. While this is set up as a massive conflict it later turns out that they’re super best bros who are also kind of in love with each other and are well up for sharing the heroine. Great. Fabulous. And there’s a fair bit of angsty noise around how their penis-duelling could get them ruined and/or hanged for sodomy (HISTORICAL PEDANT NOTE: hangings for sodomy in the sense of homosexuality as we understand it today were actually fairly rare because it was very hard to prove that sodomy had or was occurring without literally finding someone’s cock in someone else’s bum, and sodomy was a catch all term for sexually perverse behaviour in general, so usually when someone was getting hanged for sodomy it was on account of having sodomised, say, a fourteen year old. Also this book is set at a time when Lord Hervey was literally living openly and publicly with his wife and his male lover, and everyone just thought he was a bit of a weirdo).ANYWAY: despite all this, the book goes to an insane amount of trouble to avoid any implication that these two dudes who love each other and want to bang each other could in any way be … like queer? They deny any attraction to other men, have never slept with or felt affection for any dudes beyond each other, and only apparently fell into deep dicking each other as a kind of *digestif* to fighting. And while the final scene does involve them sexing each other romantically beneath the heroine’s approving gaze … I just felt the book was trying to have its queer cake and eat it? Like, it wanted us to enjoy the sexual fantasy of two hot guys fucking but not have to deal with any of that icky gay stuff?But.Um.The truth is … how can I say this.I was very aware throughout of how problematic the book is in multiple different ways (many of which should have personally rendered it a deal breaker) and I was often pretty uncomfortable, especially in the final third which is sort of just heroine-centric torture porn?But I also found myself reading it with the glee of a teenager. It’s bought an amp that turns up to eleven, you know? It’s histrionic, and ridiculous and it’s campy as balls, and I cannot resist me some high camp. Like, there is literally a line where the heroine describes the speech of the husband she believes has cheated on her as “blasphemous ululation.” Genuine phrase, deployed without a hint of irony. You’ve kind of got to love that. Also one of the heroes has a penis so big it cannot, like, raise its head? You know like a disaffected teenager in a physics lesson.Oh, oh, and there’s a bit, I swear to God, where the other hero … eats? The heroine’s dress?Then, as promised, his teeth sank into the back of my gown and began an erotic assault on the satin, pulling at hooks, ripping through ribbon, and freeing me from the air-depriving restraints.His breathing accelerated, and his hands dug into my waist, holding me immobile and recklessly affected. I was so distracted by the wreckage of his teeth and the sounds of his hunger I didn’t notice he’d finished with the gown until it landed around my booted feet in a puddle of shredded fabric.I mean, whatever floats your boat, mate?And do not even get me started on the Chekov’s citrus allergy plot. Oh okay. I’ll start a little. I won’t spoil the, um, resolution of the Chekov’s citrus allergy plot but there’s a bit near the beginning where the heroine needs information from the hero with a citrus allergy. So she comes up with this whacked out plan to sex it out of him, by like covering herself in orange juice, then using perfume to cover up the scent of oranges, and then tempting him to touch her so he gets orange juice all over his hands, which means he can’t touch his dick while she’s all, like, getting down with her bad self. And given she’s got him literally chained up in the bilge … this just struck me as a really complicated way to get orange juice onto his hands when she could just have, like, squirted orange juice onto his hands and/or dick? And then masturbated at a safe distance?I mean, I don’t know. I’m clearly just not camp enough for this book. Since it has never occurred to me to extract information from someone by wanking at them.And look I can’t lie: I was completely invested in the entirely absurd relationship that develops between the heroine and Lord Ashley Cutler, the pirate hunter who has captured her. The other guy is a bit of a cypher apart from being Welsh and having longish hair and great abs, but I’m just a sucker for the cold guy who is secretly exploding with “unseemly needs” and terrible shame. It’s like a kink kryptonite for me. Although, really, I had absolutely no place being into a hero whose introduction involves hanging the heroine over the back of his ship and then wailing on her vulva.I mean, I’ve got no excuses. At this point I am just shaking my head at myself. I think there sometimes just comes a point when something is so … extravagantly itself that you either take it on its own terms or belligerently part ways. For some reason, something about this book, made me take it on its own terms. If you can do that—and I’m aware being able to do that is a matter of privilege-it’s fun. It’s batshit fun.If you can’t that’s totally fine. And I would under no circumstances suggest you try.PS – this book is also weird about anal. On the one hand, we have a heroine who is unabashedly into it, which is all nice and sex positive and stuff. But the only time we see it happening on page it’s being used as a punishment. Mixed messages, much?PPS – another reason I kind of love lord Ashley Cutler is that while he’s being sexually tormented by the heroine, but unable to admit his feels, he keeps sneaking out of the bed he shares with her to wank in solitary splendour on the balcony on the back of the ship. What made me laugh so hard I woke my partner was that when the heroine finally decides to join him and put him out of his wank misery she discovers he’s brought a pot of lube with him. What we have here is a hero who will seek his release furtively on a balcony but still remember to bring with him his personal pleasure enhancers. Respect dude, respect.