OH MAN!! I AM CRYING AND SMILING AND DYING!!! This was the most beautiful and most heart pounding story I've read in a long time!! GAHHHHH.....that ending! *wiping away tears* I know nobody can see me...but literally there are tears rolling down my face! Reid..I love you! I love you, I love you, I just freakin love you!!!UPDATE!!!****First off, I would like to thank Gina L. Maxwell and her publicist, Jessica for giving me a copy of the book to review! I wouldn’t have melted into a puddle on the floor without you! *wink****Hmmm....okay..how do I put this?? This book was pretty much my most favourite of all time in the history of ever! :DSeducing Cinderellahad me in its grasp the moment I started it! It was sweet, funny, sexy and sooo addicting! I read this in 3 freakin hours!! O_O All that humor, seduction, love, drama and sexual tension had me laughing, biting my nails, begging for Reid to come stay with me or wishing like a clown on crack that I was in Lucie’s place! It was simply perfect!My impression of Reid:Oh, did I mention that non-stop swooning, drooling, getting turned on and falling in love are all a part of this magnificent book!? Yep, when you meet Reid Andrews, your life functions get terminated and you can’t help but fall for all that bad boy charm, sexy as sin tattoos, seductive eyes and smile and that impossibly sweet teddy bear side! Not that it happened to me....of course....*cough*Reid Andrews, famous MMA fighter, finally has a chance to reclaim his belt as the light heavyweight champ, until he gets a shoulder injury that could very well mean the end of his career. With only months away from the big fight, Reid needs to heal - and fast. So Reid’s trainer, Butch, is left with no choice but to send him to a professional. Expecting someone who doesn’t understand his sport, Reid is surprised to find his best friend's little sister as his aid. Lucie Miller, physical therapist, is insecure and in love with a doctor, who doesn’t see her as more than a friend. So, when Reid comes back into her life offering seduction lessons in exchange for quick healing, she doesn’t turn him down. What was once a friendly relationship, Lucie and Reid soon find themselves engaged in an emotional battle of a more intimate level - one neither is able to resist nor confront. It’s one tough fight, but it’s a good thing neither is ready to loose each other’s hearts.Don’t they both sound amazing! Lucie was such a treat. I loved her shy but totally feisty personality. She was cute and adorable and beautiful! And when we find out about what her ex-husband did to her, I was crying for her and very pissed of on her behalf! I mean, seriously, what a douchebag! I swear my middle finger was constantly playing jack in the box whenever he came up! Shallow Douchenozzle! Okay, Okay, I’m angry...again...*breathing in and out, in and out* Lucie’s character grows so much throughout the story and I was jumping with joy, as Lucie slowly starts to believe in herself and see herself as a beautiful woman once again. It was very touching and I loved the connection I felt with Lucie through her ordeals. She was a doll and there wasn’t one moment where I wasn’t cheering her on! YOU GO GIRL!! :DThen we have Reid Andrews. Holy HOT TAMALES! The things I would do to this man....seriously though, Reid...after reading your story, I only have one thing to say to you:Yes yes, call me a slut, a vixen, a naughty girl....but that doesn’t change the fact that I drooled and swooned, and purred and melted into a puddle over Reid!! Sexy...not even close, hot...doesn’t even begin to cover it, scorchingly beautiful....getting warmer,killer orgasm alert....DING DING DING DING!!!Reid was fantastic...if you couldn’t already tell. He is a bad boy through and through but with a sweet side. What I loved most was how Reid also had insecurities. The way Ms. Maxwell portrayed those feelings on paper, was achingly beautiful. Reid wasn’t just some dumb jock, his character had depth. I loved that! Not to mention, his sense of humor and witty remarks. They had me laughing non-stop!"Okay, here comes your boy with our drinks. He'll wait for you to approve the wine. I want you to channel Jessica Rabbit and give him a show."Her jaw dropped. "You want me to channel a cartoon character from Who Framed Roger Rabbit?"Reid's expression actually looked like he couldn't believe her incredulity at his choice in sex goddess. "She's sex on heels. Every dude wants to bang Jessica Rabbit."LOL XD Now add all that to his relationship with Lucie...WOWZA! I could practically see the sparks and thunder and lightning! It was hawt and scorching and totally panty melting! Watching Reid break Lucie’s armor of insecurities and turn her into a confident woman was amazing! Reid showed her, her worth and that anyone would be stupid not to love someone like her. And that right there, sealed the deal for me! How could it not?! This book wasn’t just some erotic story, there was real emotions and depth, that made you feel as if you were actually in the characters’ place. I was literally shouting at them to hurry up and get together! It was wonderful! :DThe secondary characters such as Vanessa, Eric and Kyle were all so much fun and likable! I would love to get a story for Vanessa! That would be too cool....and hilarious! XDOverall,Seducing Cinderellawas definitely worth the read! It was perfect from start to finish and I had a blast reading it! With a perfect blend of humor, romance, seduction and drama...it will have you hooked. I highly recommend this book because its one contemporary book you don’t want to miss out on! Ms. Maxwell, I sincerely hope you write a gazillion more books because this one blew me away! :DMy Fave part of the entire book:He grinned. “You’re going to make me spell it out, aren’t you?”“You’re lucky I don’t make you write it in the sky with one of those little planes.”He chuckled, but sobered fairly quickly. Still holding her close, he touched his forehead to hers and spoke with the utmost sincerity shining in his hazel eyes. “Lucie Marie Maris...I am completely and utterly in love with you. And as God as my witness— no matter how long it takes—someday I will be worthy enough to be your husband, because I can’t bear the thought of living without you.”***Seducing Cinderella was labeled the USA TODAY bestseller today, so hopefully it will be coming in paperback format soon!! WOOT WOOT!!***