Tessa is a 17 year old on her way to CA to visit her cousin Elle. She is taking a summer break from her affluent all girl school. She meets a nice guy on the plane and they talk on the whole flight. Ty figures out Tessa comes from money and she finds out him and his friends are in a band. She offers Ty a ride in the limo that is waiting on her at the airport. When she drops off Ty he introduces her to the rest of the band and she immediately notices Bodhi.Her cousin Elle is waiting on her and super excited to see her and they go hang out with her friends, who coincidentally are neighbors with Bodhi and Ty. Tessa cannot keep her eyes away from Bodhi and he seems to be having the same issue. They do not talk much that night, but there is a drinking game of "I never" and she finds out a few things about Bodhi. He doesn't date, has never been in a relationship, but does hook up. As a member of the O-Seed band he has his choice of women. One that shows up at the house, but is avoided by Bodhi. Tessa and Elle spend a lot of time with the guys because Elle is dating one of them and she doesn't go home a lot. Her mom is an alcoholic and they do not get along.Bodhi immediately feels something towards Tessa. He is jealous because she sticks close to Ty and they end up having a conversation about it. Ty is interested but he notices that Tessa in leaning more towards Bodhi. There is a little push and pull between Bodhi and Tessa, but that does not last long.They quickly get involved and Bodhi finds out just how innocent Tessa is. He also finds out she has led a very sheltered life and her parents suck. Her mother could care less about her and as far as her father is concerned, all he wants is for the family to look good. Bodhi has no communication with his parents. When he decided to become a musician he is cut off completely and at one time had to work three different jobs.Both Bodhi and Tessa know she will have to go home at the end of the summer, but as they spend more time together it is harder and harder to think about that. Tessa is already picturing staying in CA and Bodhi for the first time in his life wants to be with her and only her and is devastated at the thought she will be leaving.By this time Tessa has been told by her cousin Elle exactly what Bodhi did in order to support himself and the evidence is everywhere. Tessa did not care but promises not to tell Bodhi she knows which ends up being the catalyst of this story.Craziness ensues......There are arrests, arranged marriages, lies, manipulation, falsified records, court orders, fraudulent jail records, restraining orders, the truth about her age, drug use, money offers, recording contracts, family secrets, and the separation of Bodhi and Tessa.There were a few things I did not like in this story, and things I did especially the way Bodhi and Tessa found there way back to each other even with all the craziness. Once Bodhi fell for Tessa that was it. He suffered the separation just as much as she did.HEAEpilogue 18 years later