Not safe: CHEATING- hero cheated for 2 years then dated the ow after the separation. He didnt break up with her even after he stated sleeping with the heroine again, so again he disrespected her by accepting her being in the mistress position (she is crazy, so she was happy being the mistress, fucking him behind the ow's back was her great revenge)- heroine was celibate and only with the hero- no std test or condoms used bewteen the h and the H. He used condoms with the ow, but he also went down on her.- He stopped fucking ow once he started cheating with the h. Before, during the first 2 years, he double dipped while cheating until he started losing interest in being with his wife, the h, because he was having great sex (his words) with the ow at lunch breaks, his work desk and during the weedkends- he was with the ow for almost 3 years but the author wants us to believe it was nothing other than sex, it was a relationship. He spend money in her, he did things like hiking, he went out in the middle at the night leaving the h alone tend to her because she was crying.- the h is pathetic, she does the chasing for a man who cheated and humiliated herI never imagine someone who wrote Lyon would do something like this. The book is atrocious, instead of a comedy this is a sad tale of a crazy woman and a disguting cheaterYou know those desperate wives whose husbands are cheating but they are like "he may fucks you, but he comes home to me". Like this is a fucking prize. The heroine is exacly one of those.He has been cheating for two years and she knows, he stopped wanting sex and she discovered everything because she saw the hotel room's receipts. He took the ow to lunck breaks to fuck, he took her to nice hotels, he bought her gifts, he spent the weekends doing activities with her like hiking and he went running when she called crying, he once left the h's bed to go tend to her when she called. The ow knew she got him hooked by theb. She was a co worker.Instead of divorce, she lost weight and found a job, at first we are led to believe she was being strong. But since the beggining it was all a plan to get him back. Once she was thin, atletic and secured a jov she asked for a divorce. He accepted and continued to be with the ow for eight more months.The heroine's big revenge plan that the author said on the blurb to put the hero and the other through hell is nothing more than cheating with her now ex husband. How pathetic a woman can be to go from wife to mistress like she is in a much higher horse than the ow. The man had his cake and he eat it too, then he came back for more and both women served themselves on a silver plate.It is digusting the position the heroine decided to take. She did with him what he did with the mistress, lunch break fuck fests.The author tried to make a big comedy, but the betrayal was too much, the money he spent in the ow, the time while the h took care of the house and kids alone. Him fucking her at his desk at work. Only do his pov in the epilogue saying the first two times he fucked ow the sex was great but then he felt guilty and tried breaking up a lot at the beggining. Bullshit from a cheater. The beatrayal was downplayed by heroines crazy scheme.I thought she couldn't be more ridiculous, but of course she created an imaginary friend, called him Tim and lied to her ex husband about fucking him too. Of course the women can never have a real other man wanting and being with them. It is a false person. The only not awful thing about this book is that she never told the truth about her plan or about Tim, so he thinks he existed and they even had a DNA to prove he is the father of her last baby. But as a reader knowing she did this, a jealous plot to try and get a cheater back is just to humiliating I feel even more sorry for her.At the same time I dont feel sorry at all, if someone can be that crazy over a cheater, they deserve what they get.She then purposely got pregnant because he promised her 4 kids and they have four. He was a cheater, before he was not even a great father yet this woman wants another baby with him? The ex who lets his mistress go to her house to pick up the kids, meaning the man who exposed his kids to another woman, one that hurted her.The lenghts this woman went to fight for a cheater is insane, because let's be real, the game here is doing anything to get him back. Cut the bullshit with this revenge plan.She is his mistress for 3 months, he dumped the ow once his ex was now thin and going out of her way to fuck him. Because of course before she was fat, tired and didnt have time to anything other than the kids.At the end we know how pathetic she truly is, because it has been 18 years later, the last kid went to college and she finally agrees to marry him again. Mind you she never fucked anyone else, they were living at the same house and were in a committed relationship for all those years, so yeah such a big revenge not accepting his wedding proposals. Then he goes to get the marriage license only to find out they were never divorced. Yep, she is THAT pathetic. The man cheats for two years, then starts dating openly the ow for eight months but this *no words to describe how much of a joke she is* never even divorced him. So much for marriage meaning anything at all.This sad pretense of a strong woman won her prize at the end, the cheater is no longer cheating and continues to be her husband. Uau, great accomplishment honey, I couldn’t be less proud of you.To sum up: her big revenge is making him believe she was fucking someone to lure him back into her back and fucking him the whole timeNow I feel bad about all the other books I gave 1 star because none of it were as bad as this one.