Disappointing to say the least.Let me preface by saying the author seems to really like her FMC’s getting sexually assaulted. While I like her books it is getting to be a bit much for me and I’m not sure I’ll continue the series because of it. There's mention of it in every book in this series including flashbacks and SA in this one.I also feel like you DO have to read the first books in the series because not only do you meet these characters in that book but only a few chapters in on this one, they’re bringing up characters from the first two books. I’d be lost if I didn’t read those ones.In fact, it happens the whole first half of the book. I already READ the first two books. I don’t want a new book with a full recap of the previous ones especially going back in time. The author SHOULD have wrote this book first or second for it to make sense. It's VERY repetitive.We have MMC Colt (Steal) and FMC Cassidy (Trouble). They meet when Steal walks out of his longtime fuck-buddy’s college dorm room (Faith = OW) and meet eyes. Steal instantly wants Cassidy like he’s never wanted a girl before. He’s 23, she’s 20. He’s next up to be President of the MC Huntsman, his dad is President. Cassidy is headed for medical school and is very dedicated to her schooling and family. He chases her for a bit and finally she gives in. She does bring up his history and why she's wary and how dedicated she needs to be for her schooling. He promises to be faithful to her.Now the entire book, Steal puts Faith, the OW, his ex f*ck buddy ahead of Cassidy for the dumbest reasons. The excuse is that the "older" MC members (he means like 3 of them) won't take him seriously as the next MC President if he doesn't jump when they say jump and somehow that includes taking care of Faith in every way even after he becomes President. It's so far fetched because no one would have faith (hehe) in a President they can boss around or under mind.Steal had been sleeping with Faith (and lots of others) since Faith was 18 and did not stop until he met Cassidy. So roughly five flipping years. Faith’s father was a MC member and died so the club still takes care of her. Steal feels like he must prove himself to the older generation (especially Faith’s dead father’s friends Brute and Butch) or they will not respect him and part of that means jumping every time Faith wants him to. And that makes some sense but only for a bit of the book. When it goes on for months, then years, then years the excuse runs so thin it's see through."Come on, Cass, don't be like that; she's family and the brothers count on me to look after our family."I try, but all she does is chuckle, and it's not a funny one either."More like she's the girl you screwed for years before you decided you had to have me, pissing off your brothers."I narrow my eyes at her words. "For nearly two years, you've put her above me, and quite honestly, I've kind of had enough of being last." I sigh."Cass, I'm not going to get into the same argument with you, especially over the phone. Look, it shouldn't take me long to pick her up. I'll pick you up at your dad's gym on my way through to dropping her off…”"Yeah, no, don't bother!" she snaps, and I grit my teeth, already getting pissed with her attitude and pissed with the whole situation, feeling like I’m being torn in fucking two."So what? Are you going to let Ollie down because you can't get a grip on your jealousy?" I snap back but instantly regret my words because that's exactly what I've just done—I've let her down and we both know she’s not jealous, she’s fed up."No, I won't. Perrie and I will be there after he arrives. Just do me a favor, don't fucking talk to me when I'm there!"She hangs up, and I lean against the truck with a sigh, dropping my hand. I feel like I’m fucking failing right now.I don’t go, the club will be pissed; I do go, my girl won’t talk to me for a week, then withhold sex for a monthThis goes on for FOUR years. He misses Cassidy’s graduation, anniversaries, birthdays, leaves her standing in the rain, forgets to pick her up, leaves in the middle of dates all for the club but really just when Faith calls him. And since it's fiction, you have to suspend belief that the OW would need to call him literally every single day, 15x a day. This grown adult can't walk straight without calling him apparently. He gets annoyed at Cassidy when she fights with him. He gets annoyed when she questions him. Basically she should just be a hole for him to fuck without an opinion. All the MC Members also hate her for no reason. Like she's a gorgeous, dedicated almost doctor.This also doesn't make sense because even though it's brushed off as Cassidy "stole" Steal from Faith (she very much did not), but Cassidy and Steal date for FOUR years. She lives with him. Faith acts like a club whore and fucks almost every member of the MC including members old enough to be her grandfather.... so why is Steal on the hook? Rolling my eyes.Then of course we get the scene where Faith tries to get Cassidy raped by another MC Member (one Faith is fucking herself, gross!!) and Cassidy ends up stabbing him. Steal then yanks Cassidy out of the room by her hair, calls her a whore, takes Faith’s side and pulls a gun on Cassidy pointing it at her head and telling her to leave town or he’ll kill her. He does this under the pretense that he's protecting her from the MC members killing her. He's the President but can't control or investigate his own members? Weak AF male lead.Cassidy goes to the hospital, finds out she has internal tearing from the assault and that she’s pregnant and she's afraid Steal will kill her so she fakes her disappearance for 4 years. Fakes it. She never leaves.That’s right, she LIVES IN THE SAME MOTHERFLUFFING TOWN, IN THE SAME APARTMENT AND HAS STEAL’S KID FOR THE NEXT FOUR YEARS AND NO ONE FLIPPING NOTICES. SHE EVEN WORKS HER SIDE JOB STITCHING UP UNDERGROUND FIGHTERS- THE SAME FIGHT CLUB HER SISTER FIGHTS AT. GIVE ME A BREAK!!!Finally when another MC Club members woman is attacked (previous book), the MC club members find Cassidy is one of the doctors at the same hospital she's always been at. (Duuurrr). Steal also finds out he has a daughter and kidnaps them both to his house to force Cassidy to love him. She plays pranks on him and he tolerates it because he fucked her over yet she still fucks him because her body just loves him so.Faith, the whore, is still around and even kidnaps Steal/Cassidy's daughter because apparently it's super easy to fool this MC idiots on their own compound. While they're searching for their 3 year old daughter whose been kidnapped by a looney toon, they stop to have sex on his desk first. WHHHHHHHAAAT?!?!?There is NO flipping grovel almost at all except for he shouldn't have put the club and Faith ahead of her but "had to". They also couldn't figure out for FOUR fucking years that Faith set Cassidy up to be raped. Steal kills like gee 7 members of his own club and everything is right again?Basically the author excuses it away with sexual tension so it must be love.Highly, highly disappointing.