Yes, this book was on of THOSE books, for me. You know, the ones that affects you so deeply, both traumatize you and rebuilds you. Right after you finish, you don't understand what's happening, but you know that something changed in you. The ones that makes you to rais you expectation for the others.Yeah, one of those...Jessica Sorensen was the shocker of 2012 for me, and 2013 so far. I have read all her books in The Fallen Star series, 5 book plus a spin off tho the series. Even though she is good at writing paranormal stuff, which keeps you guessing the whole way til the end, I though she was a little sloppy in romance department. I read all books in the series, first 3 was great, but the rest was pretty much the same. It felt like she ran out of material and rewrote few first books in the series. Which left me irritated and, to be honest, I totally forgot about Jessica Sorensen after that, until I came acros The Secret of Ella and Micha. I was very surprised, because it was completely different book, from what she usually writes.When I started reading The Coincidence of Callie and Kayden, I started seeing Sorensen in a whole different light. By the time I finished, I placed her in the same category with Colleen Hoover, Abbi Gline, Jamie McGuire and Samantha Young. Yes, she is that good! I completely underestimated her. I still can't believe that it's the same person that wrote The Fallen Star series.Ok, about this book. Freaking zing-zing-amazing! I can talk about it for days. What an amazing way to start my 2013 read-a-thone. Best book of 2013 so far.Characters:- Callie, I fell in love with her from the first page. Such a broken little soul. There were so meny moments where I wished I coul give her a hug and say "It's going to be alright, honey. Keep the hope up, one step at the time, you can do it." I could feel how much she struggled to get rid of her past demons and it was breaking my heart. What a brave young woman. So much strength and determination in a such young person. It was impossible not to love her. She is one of my all time favorite characters. When she met Kayden, one night during very unfortunate circumstances, I wanted to tell Kayden "Please don't hurt her.". Because, at that time, I knew nothing about him.- Kayden, oh Kayden.Another character that became one of my favorites. That night at the poolhouse, when I first got to meet him, I knew the story is going to be amazing. I wanted to scream "Fight back, you fool!". But I understood why he didn't :-(. His character had so much dept. Everybody saw him as a bad boy, a popular kid, but no one knew how broken he was on the inside. I was hurting for him so much. I was very nervous to see how their relationship going to develop. Even though I loved him, I was not sure if I wanted to see him with Callie. He had so meny demons, that he needed to get rid of first, before jumping into anything, especially with Callie. What made me fall in love with him even more, was the careful way he approached Callie, how sweet, gentle and understanding he was. I liked the fact that he knew how f***ed up he was and that he wasn't good enough for her, but that goddamn pull, that he felt towards her...- Callie and Kayden together.I loved them together. You say two wrongs don't make it right? Well, in this story, two wrongs made it oh-so-right. I felt how deep and profound their connection was. Yes, there were couple of times where one or the other freaked out and ran off. In meny other books it often made me irritated, because it looked childish and immature. But not in this case. The flashbacks, the hurt... I didn't blame them. I understood them, more than I wanted to. But the beautiful thing about it was the fact that there were no judgement or irritation from the the one that was left standing. There was only worry and hope that the other one was okay. They always found a way back to each other.I could feel the love, in every word, in every touch and every thought that they had about one another. Something simple as them holding hand, gave me goosebumps. Him, holding her hand, drawing circles with his thumb in the palm of her hand, without saying a word, said so much more than the actual words could have "I'm here, I see you, I hear you, I understand you, you are safe...".It was the first time where I was actually dreading the moment when they will have sex. Because I was not sure if I could handle it. I didn't know if they, them selfs, could. It took a long time for them to get there. But when they did, time stood still...They were clinging to one another like their lives depended on it. I caught my self smiling from ear to ear, while tears trickled down my cheeks. Stupid, I know, but that's how heartbreakingly beautiful I thought the moment was. And the fact that Ed Sheet happened to be singing Give Me Love in the background, didn't helped one bit :-).- Seth. I want a best friend like him! I don't know enough English words to describe how amazing he is. He defines a best friend. That's how a best friend should be. He puts all other best friend in romance novels to shame :-). He has his own problems, but he doesn't let them get in a way of his friendship with Callie. He is considered, honest, caring, loving and generally an amazing human being. I love the fact there wasn't any secrets between him and Callie. I have read meny books where one friend can't or won't tell something important to the other, because of this or that. It often made me wonder "Why would you even call him/her your best friend!?". Seth's and Callie's friendship was honest and beautiful. There was no judgement or pity. They simply understood each other, in more ways than one, and could lean on one another when they needed to. I loved how protective he was of Callie, and how he managed to put his demons aside and became friends with Kayden and Luke. I can only imagine how hard it was for him :-(.I was both surprised and glad, that there was a cliffhanger. I can't wait for the nex book.I'm going to stop my ramblings. Brilliant writing, amazing and very realistic story. The only other book that have affected me so deeply was written by Abbi Gline While It Lasts. Sorry for bringing her up, Jessica Sorensen deserves all the spotlight in my review. Just thinking out loud...I'm sorry for underestimating you, J. Sorensen and writing you off, you are brilliant.