It must be one of those cases where it’s me and not the book, or maybe it’s the author and me that are simply not compatible. Her heroes are what spoils all the stories. This one is a mix between a durable fire from Robyn Donald and after the music from Diana Palmer. The Robyn Donald one is maybe more similar. The heroine pretends to be the hero’s brother fiancé to help him win back his ex. The hero suddenly wants her so he pursues her and has sex with her even if he thinks she had sex with his brother and doesn’t believe she was a virgin even when she bleeds like a butchered animal. Then he sluts shames her and gives her money. This is Robyn Donald’s al right, but at least the heroine there married and had a daughter with another man. While this idiot here stays celibate and frozen for six years while the hero fucks around and never looks for her. The author would like us to believe that even if he fucked ow aplenty and he never thought about looking for her he loves her very much and never stopped thinking about her for one day. This is what I call guilt not love, babe. He feels remorse because he knows that he treated her abominably and he would like to go back in time and make things differently. Then he accidentally and I repeat, accidentally, meets her again he is all over her and pursues her for real this time. The heroine had been frozen in time because she’s first class loser and of course it takes a couple of days and she falls for his charms because, TBS at its best. Nope. Conniving brother who told the hero he fucked the heroine did another awful thing, he burned a letter with the money the heroine sent back because he was ashamed so the hero never knew it but honest, who the hell cares.So, there are bad heroes, hurtful heroes, and cruel heroes, and then there are disgusting heroes and this is one. He has nothing for him to like except maybe it’s magic penis, I understand that nowadays there must be lack of men who knows how to properly fu…ahem have sex with a woman and there must be many many women unsatisfied and frustrated that would love to find a good one who makes them come with a flick of his tongue and a touch of his rough fingers, and of course that have a penis who can find their g spot on 3 seconds because you must really be that desperate to allow such a disgusting human being back again into your life, and the heroine is such a loser that she couldn’t even find one man to have sex with and she’s a beauty without compare! I don’t know if it’s more laughable or embarrassing. I know I’m being petty but when a man is that low and the heroine doesn’t react finding immediately a substitute that makes her feel better I can’t even muster an amount of interest and even less, angst. So in the end i was simply out of it and I didn’t care what he did and how he did and when his brother was forgiven I felt that the heroine deserved to be treated like a whoe by the hero and by his brother too. In a period of time where things like this should come to an end well, I just can’t. The hero in a durable fire was an awful pig but he looked a lamb and a gentleman compared to the ignorant redneck hero in this book, and at least Robyn Donald’s heroines are as hard as nails and give the heroes as much as they take, so in the end I felt contented while here I felt like I didn’t care a fu… if she was back with the hero or not. Sadly she was.