My rating: 2 (Although I seem to be debating with myself about why am I even giving it 2 stars)Of course, the girl was a nerd and cynical who wasn't popular.Of course, the boy was popular and played football!Of course, the girl had an ex-best friend who became popular and left her alone.Of course one of their parents was divorced or getting a divorce.Of course, the story was like every other Wattpad bookI was hoping to get a good story with the fake dating trope. After 'To all the boys I have loved before' this concept was so fun to me! I downloaded the book very instant I saw one of my friends reading it. But then I saw the cover and it had a Wattpad logo at the bottom. And I thoughtoh hell here comes the downfall of the book. But then I considered that Wattpad isn't bad! It is such a great platform for writers! And it is not necessary that all the books that come out of it are trashy (guess that was wrong)Becca wants to show her ex-best friend that she is dating someone and Brett wants to show his dad that he is enjoying his life as a high schooler and is not completely engrossed in football. What do they do...fake dating!It was so crazy that after the very first chapter I could figure out that it was a Wattpad story!I skimmed through the pages. I was literally reading 6 lines per every ebook page lol. Before becoming an avid reader I used to read a lot of Wattpad books and I think i was skipping most of this book because I knew what was going to happen or what line is going to come next or what the character was thinking...because it is all the fucking same!Did we have a trashy but cute nerdy girl who felt like an outsider but was soon reopened to a new world because of our male MCBrett--check!Did we have a perfect popular high school boy who is not very perfect in real life but the nerd girl seems to fix him --check!And oh my god, I was so annoyed by the characters! So, our MC Becca the 'introvert' just doesn't seem to get past their parent's divorce and stalks her dad's new house and wife like crazy!I mean I get it, girl, your parents divorced...5 years ago! Let's get this straight, most parents in America end up getting divorced but their children don't ruin their lives because of that.But then I thought okay maybe Becca is different. She is over sensitive and feels emotions differently. Let us MOVE ON...Brett the 'jock' feels like he needs to impress his dad and he plays football like all the time to fulfill his dad's dream. His dad attends all his games n all until one day he doesn't show up to his son's games because of work. Normally that is fine but Brett over here starts to whine like a fucking baby because his father didn't come to his game! He broke his record of coming to every game *gasps loudly*this is so emotional!Moving on, there is so much I can say about this book but honestly I don't even have sentences to quote. Maybe in the future....someday...this books could get interesting for me...but right now...it was a disaster. I can't even write this review write now because I don't have shit to write about!Now coming on to the things I did like:1. The opening first few pages.2. Some parts made me smile :)3. That's probably it.SO, this was my opinion but I won't judge you or force you to not read it. 'AFTER' was one of my favorites long ago so who am I to judge! (DISCLAIMER:after is not my fav right now, nor I will ever read it again)Toodles! xx