Update (25/06/2014)-Since I've been receiving a lot of cyber bullies and hate messages, I’m going to clarify few things.-Firstly, this is a negative review of the book and it has got a lot of potential to infuriate the fans. If you think that your opinion is the only opinion that exists on earth and that no one should dislike your favourite book, then I would suggest you to avoid this review.-Stop harassing me. Why can't you get it through your thick skulls that everyone has different opinions, they’re going to interpret books differently from you and stop being selfish to think that just because you loved a book that means the whole world should love it. This world is full of people with differing opinions, differing thoughts and differing likes and differing dislikes, learn to respect them even if you don’t agree with what they have to say about your favourite books. Just because you love a particular book that I hate doesn't make you a good person and me a bad person, It simply shows that people like different things.Every reader has the freedom to dissect and critically analyse any book and write their thoughts on it in their own review space without the fear of anyone (or fans bossing them into writing what the fandom wants). Critically analysing books and criticising problematic aspects of any reading material prevents people from being passive readers.Shakespeare and J.K Rowling too have their own share of critics then what makes Green’s book flawless that it’s not allowed to be criticised?-Stop cyber bullying and trolling me.Your hate messages and death threats will show much more of your personality than your love for this book. Remember, every time you comment any bullshit here, you’re giving your own fandom a bad name and my review more popularity. Also, your hate messages aren't going to put me down. I’m a strong girl and I’m always going to stand up for what I believe in come hell or high water. I don't fear anyone and no one can ever force me to follow their orders like a puppet especially not a fandom wheremostof the fans are immature cyber bullies who can’t respect other’s opinions. Also, I've caught fans making fake accounts to troll my review, this shows me that they are big cowards who hide their faces and send me spiteful comments.-Lastly, I’m NOT shaming anyone for loving this book. You can love whatever you want to and believe in whomever you want to. I have no problem with people who genuinely love this book;I have problems with those who think readers should not have the rights to express their dislike for any book, I have problems with those who approve of and participate in cyber bullying reviewers who write negative reviews on their favourite books, I have problems with those who refuse to acknowledge the fact that their favourite books can have flaws and not everyone’s going to love them, I have problems with those who come here to shove their opinions down my throat. Do you find anyone who hated this book shoving their opinions in comments of positive reviews? Then what makes you think that you have the rights to troll negative reviews?Alright, now let's begin with the review.**WARNING- MAJOR SPOILERS AHEAD**EXPECTATION-REALITY-So I happily bought the hardcover of The Fault in our stars back in December 2012 after seeing the high average GR ratings and raving reviews saying how beautiful, life-changing, thought-provoking and blah blah it is. Surprisingly, this book was sospecialthat it became the first book that I slammed on the wall twice after reading it. It didn’t only disappoint me but also angered me. I'm surprised to find that harsh critics are swallowing up this trash and calling it a masterpiece. Ugh!I’m going to make a list of everything I hate about this book that earned it the topmost place on my list ofWorst books ever.The characters-Hazel and Augustus are the flattest cardboard cut-outs I have ever seen in any book. Both of them were like 60-years-old stuck in some teenager's bodies making them very boring and unlikable. Hazel was such an annoying, stupid and pretentious Mary Sue that I wanted to punch her right in the face. One great example of her stupidity-”Why are breakfast foods breakfast foods...Like, why don’t we have curry for breakfast?”"A nonhot boy stares at you relentlessly and it is, at best, awkward and, at worst, a form of assault.But a hot boy . . . well."Augustus and Hazel have the same boring, pretentious, know-it-all and indistinguishable personality. Hazel is the female version of Augustus (no, I’m not going to call him affectionately with Gus) and he is the male version of Hazel. These two characters meld together and have no depth at all. I couldn’t connect with them, I felt no pain and sympathy for them and they annoyed me so much that I wanted to stab them.Romance-It fell from the sky. Seriously, I don’t get what’s so “beautiful” about the relationship between them. They both fall in love within seconds just after laying eyes on each other~love at first sight~. The romance is undeveloped and it comes from nowhere. I was baffled when Hazel accepted to go to Augustus's house just minutes after meeting him. WHAT THE HELL? How stupid can you be? You fall for a guy's words whom you met just few minutes ago and agree to go to his house!What if he were a murderer or rapist?Not to mention that the kissing scene in Anne Frank's house was so effing disgusting. Anne Frank's house is considered to be a place of remembrance, a place where 2 families hid during the dark days of Holocaust. If anyone makes out at such a revered site, they would be kicked out regardless of who or what they are. People present around will be disgusted, they won't stand and watch much less clap for the "lovely" couple.Writing-Cheesy. Emotionless. Terrible. Want to hear somefavouritequotes of mine?“My thoughts are stars I cannot fathom into constellations.”...Why compare your thoughts to stars and constellations? *sighs*"Some infinities are bigger than other infinities.""That's the thing about pain. It demands to be felt."...Yeah, that’s the thing about chocolate, it demands to be eaten.”I'm in love with you, and I'm not in the business of denying myself the simple pleasure of saying true things. I'm in love with you, and I know that love is just a shout into the void, and that oblivion is inevitable, and that we're all doomed and that there will come a day when all our labor has been returned to dust, and I know the sun will swallow the only earth we'll ever have, and I am in love with you.”“There will come a time when all of us are dead. All of us. There will come a time when there are no human beings remaining to remember that anyone ever existed or that our species ever did anything. There will be no one left to remember Aristotle or Cleopatra, let alone you. Everything that we did and built and wrote and thought and discovered will be forgotten and all of this will have been for naught. Maybe that time is coming soon and maybe it is millions of years away, but even if we survive the collapse of our sun, we will not survive forever.”Me-There were senseless dialogues, brain-cell burning metaphors and words thrown around in the book from the dictionary. I’ll stop here because just thinking about them gives me an awful migraine.And you know what?Teenagers living in the 21st century DON'T speak like that. No teen can spontaneously come up with long monologues within seconds. Also, genuinely sick teenagers don’t have the luxury to be so witty and clever every single time. One thing I don't buy is that teens with cancer suddenly become magically wise. They become terrified, confused, depressed and angry. They DON’T magically gain great insight in life and go around puking long monologues about the meaning of life.This book made me roll my eyes in disgust.(UPDATE- In response to gazillion questions and arguments I've been getting on the paragraphs above, I have written a detailed explanation below)***Plot-Predictable. Boring. Uninspiring. Put me to sleep. I had to plough through the whole book. Cancer is hard, it's painful but this book didn’t show me that. I couldn’t feel Hazel and Augustus’ struggle against it. I couldn’t feel their pain. TFioS is nothing but a cheesy romance novel.Me throughout the book-"He died eight days after his prefuneral"WHAT THE HELL?? Green tried to make his death sound LIKE HE WENT TO A PARTY LAST WEEK!!!Ok, so this book made you cry, right? If a book makes you cry it doesn’t mean that it’s a masterpiece. I can understand that you must’ve felt sad and sympathetic for the characters and must’ve cried but considering that this novel is sad and it made you cry doesn’t make it an awesome, life-changing and beautiful story. I cried after reading Allegiant for days but I hated that book with burning passion, it was one of the worst books I ever read.Before you start calling me a cold-hearted bitch for hating and criticising this book, let me tell you that if you think you have every right to go around fangirling how wonderful this book was then I believe that I have every right to express my hatred for it whether you like it or not.***I never mentioned or implied that teenagers are illiterate or can't have a large vocabulary, don't accuse me of something I haven't said. I just find it hard to believe that any teen can come up with nonsensical monologues like the ones below or think it's appropriate to use them in their conversations-"I’m awash in the metaphorical resonance of the empty playground in the hospital courtyard”“That kid never took a piss without pondering the abundant metaphysical resonances of human waste production”.(wtf?!)It's hard to believe that anyone would talk like that in a normal conversation every single time.I am a teen and I go to high school, I know many other teens of my age who have developed a large vocabulary and have brilliant writing skills. That is simply because they love reading and have developed the habit of learning new words from the dictionary from a very young age. They write amazing poems and honestly, it takes them a lot of time to ponder over and make their metaphors or poems perfect. They obviously cannot open their mouth and spontaneously say"My thoughts are stars I cannot fathom into constellations".Btw, none of the teenage characters from this book show any interest in reading high literature and poetry (the only book Hazel claims to read isAn Imperial Affliction) then what's the reason behind their ability to spew pretentious monologues?They aren't geniuses, they aren't teens who read avidly or analyse high literature and show interest in oratory, existentialist philosophy and poetry. Therefore, it's not plausible for them to speak with profound words.I would believe their monologues had they shown interest in Kant, Sartre, Nietzsche and Heidegger.Now going over the cigarette metaphor, Augustus buys a pack of cigarettes regularly just so he could put one in his mouth and not light it thus, giving us another stupid dialogue "It's a metaphor. You keep the killing thing between your teeth but don't give it the power to kill you". Funny that he won't kill himself by lighting up the cigarette but will regularly give money to an industry that is the largest cause of cancer thus, promoting the cigarette industry and indirectly killing others. (What a genius!) Not to mention that he mocks Hazel's cancer right on her face and guess her reaction? She's impressed and readily approves of and participants in his metaphor.There's a lot of difference between being wise and being pretentious and Hazel and Augustus are the latter. I don't buy their dialogues because they are extremely ridiculous and cheesy and no argument by fans and authors can change my opinion because Green makes no effort in making the dialogues IN THE BOOK seem plausible. There's no reason for their large vocabulary and ability to spew long monologues IN THE BOOK. I've read Green's post on Augustus' character being pretentious and imo, he misses the point that his characters are not only pretentious; they are extremely unrealistic as well. Augustus' pretension is not "an intentional flaw", it's simply poor characterisation.I'm not saying that kids with cancer cannot be intelligent. A lot of fans say that the characters in the book are special and wise because they have cancer and this book tries hard to show that too. I merely said that having cancer does not mean that you can automatically become wise and gain a lot of knowledge.I couldn't sympathise with the characters and feel their pain. That doesn't mean that I'm cold hearted.It's not my fault that I couldn't get emotionally connected to the characters, it's the authors fault for not writing characters I could sympathise with. It's the author's fault for making shallow, judgemental and annoying characters. It's the his fault for making characters with personality that mocks cancer patients and who show disrespect to millions of people who died in the Holocaust. It's the author's fault for romanticising cancer and using it as a ploy to sell his book.I'm NOT hating people who have cancer, I'm NOT hating the characters because they have cancer. I'm hating them for who they are. I'm hating the book because it's poorly written.I don't need to have cancer to analyse this book. Having cancer does not mean that you get the rights to say whatever you want to about this book. Every reader whether sick or not has equal rights to analyse and voice their opinions freely on any book./end rant