4.5 Understanding What You Actually Want Stars* * * * 1/2Spoiler FreeEarlier this year I had the extreme pleasure of reading The Deal by Elle Kennedy (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...). I blatantly stated my admiration of how she took a genre, New Adult, and made it work for someone who usually doesn't gravitate to it. I went on to talk about how she used all of her talents to make her characters not whine or manipulate to get what they wanted and just "manned up" time and time again. I was so happy about this book I begged all of my friends and anyone who would listen to read it.And they did....and most felt the same way I did.In this next installment, The Mistake,we continue with the characters we met in the previous book plus our new love interest for Logan. Ah... Logan.Logan, Garrett's best friend has been dealing with a huge problem...we had an inkling of it at the end of book one...He seems to be crushing big time on Hannah...Garrett's woman. Yup... this is not good...and he knows it... and feels all types of bad stuff...shame, want and just unease... He is having a real hard time dealing with all of it ...so booze and broads are the way he is blocking out these confusing feelings.But they are not really working and now his other buddies are getting weird about his crankiness and anti-social behavior. He realizes he just has to suck it up and stop behaving like an ass.....and he will after this last party.We meet Grace... she is a freshman and has led the uneventful life of smart, capable, and predictable. The only way she has colored outside her lines is with the encouragement of Romona, her childhood friend. They were both kinda opposite in ways...and Grace allowed Romona to push her to her limits...But this friendship sort of worked...and they decided to apply to Briar and room together.Once again, Grace is being pushed by Romona. There is a party happening and the target is Dean, star Hockey player...for Romona has him in her sights and will not let up for anything. She insists on having Grace come...and there they are at the house. Logan is there too...and so drunk, he will not remember bumping into Grace after he finishes with some type of hook up in the upstairs bathroom. Grace cannot believe how amazing he looks in person and just files the meeting away in the back of her mind.Logan is realizing he is lost and one last escape from the house with Garrett and Hannah all lovey-dovey proves it. He high tails it to a gathering he was told about but cannot remember the number of the room....ending up by mistake at Grace's dorm room. She opens the door, stunned to see him there. He asks about the gathering, confirms he must be in the wrong place, and explains he has no phone to see where. Grace, when nervous blathers...and because she is really nervous with this muscular God in her doorway, she talks about stranger danger, Ted Bundy, and serial killers. This is so damn cute...Logan just kind of watches...and assures her he is no threat...and just wants to use her phone.With every relationship or meeting... there is that connecting point... it is something we all have experienced in our lives...it is when we know we have something with this other person...It doesn't have to be earth-shattering...it just has to mean a little something which reveals an insight to them which you can hold on to...and in the revealing of Grace's love of action flicks, these two had that moment.Things happen... touches and kisses which ring bells and whistles...and both of them get really carried away...and then not...Logan and Grace both kinda freak out... him with a quick exit and doubt...her with a feeling of meh...Logan doesn't know what to do with this doubt... it bugs him big time and confronts Grace the next day. After they figure out their issues... this two sort of hang together a bit... but during all of these times...there are other issues happening ... family promises and responsibilities hamper Logan.He is awash in misery...his father is an alcoholic who just cannot seem to make rehab stick. He has lived for a large part of his young adult life with a missing dad...either missing figuratively or just checked out in the booze. His other brother Jeff has run the auto shop and handled the dad so Logan could go to college and play hockey. Promises were made... time is running out for Logan... he will soon have to give up everything he loves to relieve Jeff and take over the shop and care of the dad.Grace is fighting new experiences too...she is feeling like she is only following in Romona's footsteps...the only friends she has made are Romona's and she doesn't even like them all that much. They have caused her distress and she is thinking maybe this roommate thing with her childhood friend is not the best.Grace is happy with Logan; she decides she wants to be WITH him...and when all of it comes together...Logan fumbles...he says and does somethings that cause pain for both...It only takes a moment and conversation with a good friend to figure out he effed up big time. Grace is important to him and he wants to fix it... he needs to fix it...This is a simple yet complicated love story that just works... the conflicts are real not manipulated. I would suspect those who went to college and had the coming of age experience there... would relate to this.Because during those years... so many things can happen...The pressure of new people and the baggage they bring... the feeling of finding your way in a big ocean after being in the small high school pond. Understanding your bodies and all of the urges which can cloud your judgment without the buffers or safety net of restrictions by the parental figures in your lives...These are things that can just be the tip of the iceberg in maturing...and they are touched on in this story.The other thing I loved was the sex is not porn perfect... it is kids being who they are and all of the doubt and hang-ups of it all. And the moments when Logan figures it all out... swoon-worthy.In fact, Logan is The Man... He makes mistakes and works to rectify them. He is loyal to a fault with his family; his heart will make you wish he was part of your family. His love for Grace and willingness to go the extra mile for her... priceless. He will be your stealth book boyfriend.Grace is wonderful, too. She is not a weeping willow- she has an inner core of what she thinks is right and sticks to it. She is fortunate to have parents who each in their way gave her the foundation to be who she is and have their support. She makes some tough decisions, sticks to them, and in the end... they pay off. She grows on you...and you will like her.Elle Kennedy has taken a time where people develop into who they will become. She has stripped it down to the basics and made it relatable. I was able to put myself into these people's lives and be there with them every step of the way through their POVs. The drama and issues are things which many may have experienced in their own lives...here we just get to see how it can just come together and be good.This is not an earth-shattering story...but it does give us a love that is earth-shattering for our Grace and Logan...and in the end...isn't what we all want?I am looking forward to the next fella and his story...Maybe Dean...we shall just have to wait and see.The Deal (Off-Campus, #1)https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...The Mistake (Off-Campus, #2)https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...The Score (Off-Campus, #3)https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...The Goal (Off-Campus, #4)https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...The Legacy (Off-Campus, #4.5)https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...~~~ Before Reading ~~~OMG OMG OMG I just got my arc for this!I am so excited... I cannot wait to start....Damn Real Life getting in the way....Hang in there Logan.... I will be there to hold your hand soon...A gifted copy was provided by author/publisher for an honest review.For more Reviews, Free E-books and Giveaways