Yup. It hit me. Right. In. The. Feels. More than I was expecting.Honestly I was nervous. I hadn't even read the synopsis before starting this, so when I discovered it was a second chance romance (something I'm a picky bitch about), I was a little worried. And while there were a few things I didn't love, overall I really enjoyed this one!Bryan and Eilish meet and have a ONS; she was a virgin, meanwhile he was so drunk he doesn't even remember her the next morning (she didn't know he was completely wasted though). She leaves and he carries on with his life. But Eilishs life is changed forever when she discovers she's pregnant. She makes the decision not to tell him, convinced that the drunken, party boy would have no interest in a child. Flash forward five years. He's eighteen months sober and she's just been hired to work in close proximity to Bryan. Since he's cleaned up his act, there's no longer a reason for him to be in the dark, and with his relentless pursuit of her, it becomes harder to keep the secret.*I'm going to address the safety here. He was not celibate during the five year separation, and I don't think it was ever explicitly mentioned whether Eilish was, but I was under the impression she was celibate. There was reference to a few dates, but I don't think anything beyond that. However when Bryan and Eilish meet again, he has been celibate for two years.I know a lot of people don't like the heroine staying celibate, while the hero doesn't. Depending on the circumstance, I tend to feel the same. There doesn't seem to be a logical reason for why one (usually the guy) would move on and not the other, especially when it spansyears. But I think it made sense here. Not everything can be boiled down to "tropes." Like I said, this made sense and had a purpose, at least in my mind. I understood why Eilish would be gun-shy. She had been a virgin, fantasizing about the guy she was with, and woke up not only to rejection, but to him not remembering. Plus, she had a kid, and virtually no support since she was in a different country for school. All this would equate to celibacy (imo), just like it would make sense for Bryan to continue partying, drinking into oblivion, and hooking up with people. Again, I understand what readers are saying when they say they're tired of it, but celibacy or lack thereof also has to fit the characters, and this did. It would be disingenuous otherwise.*I'm not trying to change any ones mind about it, those are just my thoughts ;)Okay... on to the feels. My chest literallyachedfor Eilish every time she recounted feeling "forgettable." That is a horrible feeling, and I think the authors portrayed her insecurities and wounds very well.What I didn’t say, what I couldn’t give a voice to, what caught in my throat, too heavy with emotion to be spoken out loud, was that I didn’t need a prince. I’d happily settle for someone who wouldn’t forget me.And when she begged her heart to stop feeling?Stupid heart. Stop swelling. Swelling is bad for you. Stay small and protected.Heart = broken. But she didn't dwell on it, I thought there was a good balance between her feeling the pain and trying to move away from it. However, while I really connected to these emotions, I didn't really connect toher. I think a big part of it was her maturity. She wasn't immature per se, like I can't pinpoint details, but for being a mother she didn't always act how I would expect or want her to.Now Bryan. *sigh* Despite being a complete prick in the beginning, I warmed up to him. Alcohol really does change a person, and he was a great example. He knows what an ass he was, and I thought he treated Eilish very well, especially once he found out he slept with her and doesn't remember.I didn’t think there was any alcohol strong enough to make me forget this beauty, and if I did, I didn’t deserve to remember her.I’d had my greedy, ungrateful hands on her— been inside her— but I was too wrapped up in myself at the time to appreciate how lucky I was... What would it feel like to be on the receiving end of being forgotten?She didn’t deserve to be forgotten. She deserved to be treasured.I also liked his overall attitude. He wasn't angry with her, because he knew he wasn't in a good place five years ago. And he owned up to his mistakes. He didn't blame his mother, which would have been convenient because she was an alcoholic too, he just owned who he was. AND he wasn't up his own ass about himself. Words can't express how much I love this next quote.It wasn’t that I thought I was the prize of the century or anything, but generally speaking, when I made the effort to chat up a woman, they were a lot more receptive than Red had just been.Finally, a guy who gets around but doesn't think he's Gods gift to women. It was a refreshing change.Okay, so what didn't workfor me. I cannot stress this enough; most things I dislike in a second chance story are entirely because of my own preferences.1. Eilishs insta-lust upon seeing Bryan again for the first time. It's tricky because I understand her being attracted to him, especially if he was the only person she'd been with. But at the same time, I think it would be hard for me to immediately think of him in those terms. Even if I'd moved on, I don't think I'd be able to look at the guy who took my virginity andforgotabout it as this dreamboat kind of guy. We, the readers, know Bryan has changed and that he's a decent and really nice guy now, but I couldn't 100% understand her lust overriding her hurt.2. The "conflict" at the end. So, I think I finally figured out why second chance doesn't always work for me. I know I always complain about the sex coming before the discussion, but I think I pinpointed exactly why this bothers me. I know we all want some conflict/angst in our books (it'd be pretty boring otherwise), but with second chance stories, that (for the most part) already happened. They've already experienced heartache. And I wish more authors would focus on that as the conflict in the story. I know it makes it ass backwards to have the conflict come so soon and then have it be (relatively) smooth sailing until the end. Some might find this boring, but for me second chance stories are less about plot and more about characters and emotions (and not centered around lust). I'm not looking for twists or a shakeup at the end. I would prefer for the angst to come in the beginning, when the hero and heroine are trying to find their way back to each other. But more often than not, that conflict gets swept under the rug, the characters get together again, and then another conflict occurs.Now, ironically, this peeve of mine is pretty mild in this book. Eilish and Bryan do have plenty of discussions about the past, and they don't sleep together untilaround 70%, so they aren't moving fast. But I think given how lust-filled Eilishs thoughts were, I would have preferred for her feelings to be explored just a little bit more, as well as Bryan's relationship insecurities. I understood them, but they were addressed so late in the book, and it kind of changed his behavior which isn't what I expect when I've already watched a character evolve for 85% of the book. So the only reason I'm bringing this up (besides my aha! moment) is because I would have preferred if they explored these two things sooner and left off the drama at the end, which felt forced for the sake of conflict.I always feel like I'm being a nag when I give negatives on a 4-star review, but whenever I see a 4-star review with only positive things, I'm left thinking...why wasn't it 5-stars?!So I'm not trying to be a nagging bitch. Because Ireallyenjoyed this book, I flew through it, so obviously it was good. But personally, I wanted just a little bit more. I think if you're a fan of either author, or this series, you'll definitely enjoy this! My complaints are purely a me thing, and in no way change my love for these authors. I can't wait for more of this series *ahem* Particularly Will, I really hope this sweetheart will be getting his own book ;)Safety:Apart from the safety mentioned above, there'sextremelymild OM drama and no OW drama.Closure:HEA. There's an epilogue a couple of weeks later where they tell their son that Bryan is his father (from about 35% on, Bryan had just been hanging out as a friend); they also get engaged.