Review posted on Demon Lover's Books & MoreDuncan works for the FBI, but even though he’s human, he knows what goes bump in the night. And he knows it isn’t good. The Para Unit has been Duncan’s home away from home for years.I thought it was neat that there are certain humans who are predisposed to being able to take the wolf bite and survive. When Duncan was bitten, his body was not only able to handle the bite, but his alpha tendencies were magnified (not just because of his personality either, but I don’t want to give away that part!). But he didn’t want to become a wolf, he’d always figured if he got bit, his partner would shoot him. But there are other factors at play here. His partner can’t do it, and his boss won’t let anyone else do it.His boss (quite a piece of work, btw) brings Duncan in and has Holly, their team doctor, help him through his transition. There’s something special about Holly, and if anyone can help Duncan, it’s her. But Duncan has always been attracted to this shy little doctor, and now that his body is becoming that of a werewolf, he’s afraid of what he’ll do to her. Besides, now that he’s such a monster, she wouldn’t want him anyway, right?Holly has wanted Duncan for years, but she’s kept her distance for personal reasons. Now that he’s strong enough to handle her, should she stay away? Duncan and she can’t seem to stay apart, so...Holly and Duncan have a few hot and heavy moments that I loved, but then there’s a huge twist in the plot that takes Duncan to Purgatory (think Alcatraz but for Paranormals). This is where I feel the book either needed more pages, or needed to rework certain parts.Something big is brewing and we get to see the beginning, but it borderline feels out of left field. It’s important though, so it can’t be cut out of the story, and it shows where the series will be going too, I don’t know. The plot up until the last bit was just fine as it is, but I don’t think it needed to be shaken up that way. What I mean is that it seemed like there was a lot going on, and then about the last quarter of the book something big started to happen, but we didn’t have the page count to sustain that part of the plot.I liked this story and I really liked the plot, but I wish we’d had more time spent in Purgatory since that’s a huge part of the plot, even if we don’t realize it until later. I’m really excited to read the next book to find out how they can prevent the big thing they’re trying to prevent (<--yes I had to say it that way so I don’t give any spoilers away! Lol)Final verdict is that this is a series to watch, I absolutely can’t wait to see where it’s going from here, and it’s a steamy, sexy read.