I am writing this review with a heavy heart, because as fiercely as I loved the author’s other work, especially the Benevolence series, Bootleg Springs series, By a Thread, the Christmas Fix, the Worst Best Man, Rock Bottom Girl, etc., I felt the complete opposite after reading Things We Never Got Over. I generally do not include spoilers in my review, but am citing a few examples from the story to explain my low rating. If you don’t like spoilers, read no further.Knox Morgan our “hero” was anything but in my opinion. While I love an alpha and a growly grump with a squishy marshmallow center, I felt Knox was a condescending, self-righteous, steamrolling jerk.The story takes place in the small town of Knockemout, Virginia, where Knox lives in a cabin on the same property that he shares with his widowed grandmother. He’s 43 and won $11 million in the lottery a few years back which caused a rift between him and his only brother, Nash, the town’s chief of police, whom I adored. It wasn’t an argument over money, as Knox did offer him a generous share, it was how Knox reacted when Nash refused. Knox was arrogant and demeaning, and treated Nash horribly from beginning to end in my opinion. While not estranged, Knox obviously held resentments and needed professional help. Nash was a good man, level headed and honorable, and did not deserve it.We meet our heroine, Naomi, the day after she leaves her fiancé (for good reason) at the altar and blows into town in a whirlwind to help her evil twin sister, Tina. With a hopeful heart and generous spirit, Naomi once again falls into her trap and is blindsided by her wickedness as she stole her car and ransacked her hotel room. But her frown turned upside down when she was introduced to her adorable 11-year-old niece, Waylay, and agrees to become her guardian, even though she’s not sure how she will manage.When Knox meets Naomi at a local coffee shop, he believes she is her identical twin, causes a scene, and is anything but pleasant. I loved the sass she volleyed back to Knox and how easily she could read him and was not intimidated. Upon learning she is “not Tina” (her nickname did make me laugh), Knox offers to help her by belting out directives and taking her to an adorable cottage on his grandmother’s property. Naomi was ever so grateful and humble, and things were looking up as she was able to work out a deal with Liza J.Knox showed no respect to his brother when he officially came to investigate the break-in and car theft. The tension was so thick between the brothers that Knox egged Nash on and challenged him to a fight saying, “I saw her first.” Nash may have thrown the first punch, but after Knox punched his brother in the face, he internalized that “messing up Nash was always gratifying.” It was the first of several fistfights that Knox got into, which is a really big turn off for me.Naomi scored a job and didn’t realize it was at the local bar Knox owned. She was tired and nervous, as she never worked in the restaurant industry before, and instead of welcoming her, Knox humiliated her and demanded she “get out,” and that he “didn’t want her around.” He said, “I’m not working with some uppity, needy pain in the a$$.”This is the same woman who just had her whole life upended–and he knew this! She left her fiancé, quite her job, left her home, was missing her wallet, phone and car, taken responsibility for her niece, and was trying to start over, and he was such a crass a-hole. Even though she was a bit naive, Naomi was so sweet and had so much character. She tried her best to keep her composure, worked all night against his wishes to earn a few bucks, and then Knox had a change of heart asking her to stay. He was so hot and cold that it gave me whiplash.I feel Knox suffers from borderline personality disorder (fear of abandonment, unstable relationships, shifting self-image, impulsive, self-destructive, extreme emotional mood swings, chronic feelings of emptiness, and explosive anger.) He also possesses a narcissist’s grandiose sense of self-importance, which leads him to feel a sense of entitlement, and expects everyone to comply with his expectations without question.He was Jekyll and Hyde, gaslighting and mistreating her over and over and yet she still fell in love. Then breaks her heart and leaves...just like he said he would, and has the nerve to sulk! Out of concern Nash asked his brother as to why he broke things off, and Knox replied with, “Problem...with you helping yourself to my leftovers? Nah. Better she didn’t go to waste.”There wasn’t any romance unless you consider the time he offered to take her on a lunch date, then tossed a bagged PBJ onto her lap in his truck, convincing her to partake in an afternoon delight. Sadly, she was starry-eyed and lacked the confidence to kick him to the curb. Her life was constantly filled with drama and stress with her sister’s illegal activities, yet she remained cheerful, tried to do right by her niece planning activities to support her emotional health, all while working two jobs to become financially secure.Watching Waylay feel safe and loved for the first time in her life was really emotional. I was totally invested in their relationship and enjoyed how they got to know one another, were both hopeful for a brighter future, and dealt with Tina’s betrayal. They were victims and survivors, and I admired their strength, perseverance, and positive attitude. Naomi selflessly sold her wedding dress and used it to by her niece clothes, sold her home so she could buy a car, and agreed to clean and organize his grandmother’s house in exchange for rent. She was hardworking, resilient, and a go-getter, earning my total respect.And after Knox tossed Naomi and Waylay “like a discarded receipt he no longer needed,” she held her head high and repeatedly asked him to stop contacting her, but he didn’t respect her wishes and continued to stalk her. Then an incident happened with her sister, and he TOLD her they were getting back together. He never asked her, nor did he apologize, and to my great disappointment, she succumbed. I wish I could jump in the story and tell her that she doesn’t need Knox's scraps of affection and that she deserves better.This story does end with a HEA for the couple, and Knox did make an effort to change towards the end, but it was a little too late for me. We all have hang-ups, but it doesn’t mean we go through life as a jerk. I felt he was emotionally abusive, controlling, and passive-aggressive.Lucy Score is one of my favorite authors, and even though I did not care for the hero of this story, I will be continuing with the series and look forward to seeing who falls in love next in Knockemout. I really liked her friend Stef from home, Simone the local librarian, Nash, her parents, his grandmom, and the local townsfolk.