First read:5 - ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Second read:5 - ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Third read:5 - ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️I’m in love with a man who’ll never be mine—who’s unavailable in every way, shape, and form—and I’m certain it’s going to ruin me.To Bleed A Crystal Bloomis an exquisitely dark reimagining of Rapunzel and let me warn you: it's delightfully addictive.This book is splendid in its own book right andSarah A. Parkerdid a brilliant job in taking little pieces of the Fairytale and penning an authentic story that is emotionally unsettling and wickedly thrilling.Tropes:— Dark, dark fantasy romance (new adult)— Inspired by the fairytale of Rapunzel— Forbidden romance— Star-crossed lovers— Unique lore and world-building— Gods and prophecies— Cast of nuanced and morally grey characters— Soft and a fiesty 21-year-old heroine— Heroine who loves to paint and garden— Angsty sexual tension (100x)— Enigmatic and dark love Interest— Close proximity— Spice (gets even spicier in later books)— Character-driven plot— Multiple POVs (incl. future secondary romances)— Immortals and beasts— Secret powers and identities— So many secrets lurking at every cornerBefore I get into more details I must say, this book is part of a series and so it serves more as an origin story or a prologue that starts to push the wheels of the main plot into motion. I think it did a spectacular job at building up the foundation of the main plot and this is why I am dying to get my hands on the sequel right now.I was wholly immersed and could not put this book down. The vivid writing flowed with ease and the richly visual descriptions felt tangible. The author managed to create an eerily mesmerizing atmosphere. Every page kept sparking my intrigue because I am impressed by the world and the mysteries we've yet to uncover about it.It’s a pretty lie I like to paint; a fabled reality where he needs me just as much as I need him. Something that helps tame this unwanted feeling sprouting in my chest.Let's start with a summary of the story:21-year-oldOrlaithwas the only survivor of a bloody massacre at the tender age of two. For the past 19 years, she lived within the comfort of her stony tower and became a ward to a powerful High Master ofOcruth.Rhordynis a mystery himself, cloaked in darkness and secrets.Orlaith is enamored by Rhordyn, who to her is the center of her world. Her savior and protector.The harsh reality of their world begins to seep into Orlaith's small peaceful life with vicious beasts stepping into their lands, hunting for flesh... and possibly something else.Orlaith takes hold of a thread that leads her from one secret to another until it brings her to the one secret that will shatter her heart.A stony tower may no longer be the shield that keeps out the horror and the heartbreak.Those dark secrets begin to tear the seams of the bubble she was content to live in.“It doesn’t matter who you are, where you’ve come from; it’s in our nature to fall in love with the shackle that binds us.”I loved Orlaith. I really delved into her character layer after layer. She is fiesty and mishchevious but maintains the innocence of a girl that truly lived a sheltered life. I was emotionally connected to her and felt joy when she was happy, felt the sour taste of sorrow she was sad, and felt the burning sting of pain when she was heartbroken. I was so impressed by her character development and rooted for her.I understand the way her emotions work, she lived a sheltered life and was surrounded by specific people. She may come off as a bit immature to readers but I find that to be a natural characteristic of someone whose world is very small. I could understand why her thoughts and emotions worked that way. I also applaud the author for highlighting Orlaith's struggle with her identity especially when some secrets come to light.It's not easy at all. Her trauma is a frequent visitor in her nightmares and what I think slips the attention of many readers is the fact that Orlaith has a raspy voice because on that bloody day when she was saved, her piercing scream caused an injury in her throat.“You’re going to be the death of me.”“So long as you take me with you.”“Never.”Rhordynis intriguing in a dark way. This is a man that I want to shred into pieces because he is that mysterious. I want to wring out every secret he keeps. I smell a tragic backstory. He also exudes dark dom energy and something about him is simply... intriguing.I adoreKaiand hope to see more of him but I definitely do not want him as a romantic option for Orlaith.Cainis the one I have a lot of thoughts about. I liked him from the first time he interacted with Orlaith and I am eager to see what his role will be in the story. I do think he has his own agenda but we'll see.The sexual tension is deliciously angsty. There is clear a power imbalance between Orlaith and Rhordyn yet... you just know there is more to their connection.He pillaged my weakness. Offered me a drink from his well and I gulped with greedy draws until I was intoxicated and mindless. Then, he tossed me down the hole and left me there with no way out. Now all I can do is drown.I do recommend this for readers that enjoy the works of Sarah J. Maas and Raven Kennedy.Trigger Warning:drug use, explicit language, self harm (only tip of fingers), graphic scenes.I would like to put in a disclaimer and mention that this is a dark, dark fantasy romance. You will be frustrated and devastated by the turn of events and you won't always agree and be happy with the choices the characters make—and that's the point of it sometimes and flawed characters are more compelling to me. Characters in this book make mistakes and the relationships can be toxic but it makes their growth and change more meaningful. There is a lot of suffering, guilt, and grief that all the characters deal with. From book 1 the plot was building itself gradually and woven with an intricate lore that sheds itself more with every book and that's why not all questions are answered right away and when they do, it creates more questions and that what personally keeps me invested in the series—knowing that there is more that I want to unravel and how it ties into the stories of all these characters.Unlike other dark fantasy romance books this is just not surface-level dark, it dives right into the depths. And as my friendUnderseabookishsaid and I quote:"this series dares to be bold and wants to set itself apart within that genre by bringing back the DARK, the FANTASY, and the ROMANCE all into one series."I've been craving a dark fantasy series such as this for a long time but I absolutely understand how it might not be everyone's cup of tea. I just wanted to express why I appreciate the series for what it is.⚠️ Warning: there are spoilers in the comments section and the second section of the review, please avoid it if you have not read the book yet.***** SPOILERS BELOW******After my reread, I think Rhordyn is so incredibly misunderstood as a character and his role in this story.I have to establish first that Rhordyn is an extremely complicated and nuanced character. He is a morally ambiguous character but in no way the villain in this story.First let's get some facts straight:1. Rhordyn is not forcibly locking Orlaith in the tower, it is mentioned multiple times that he tried to integrate her into society, but Orlaith is content to live in behind the safety line away from the whispers of the general public. This is what he says to Orlaith:“I’ll stay here,” I whisper, and a shadow shutters his eyes, the muscle along his jaw feathering. “Live, Orlaith. All I’m asking is that you live.”Rhordyn even tells Orlaith at some point that her tower won't keep her safe from the looming danger, this is why he wanted her to train to fight with Baze, he wants her to be prepared in case the worst happens. The only instances he locked her in is when he did not want her to attend the ball (because of Cain) and to not let her leave to Bahari/Cain. Unlike the fairytale, Orlaith was not locked in her tower the entire time. Actually she wasn't locked for 90% of the book except on two instances.2. He can be controlling and manipulative at times especially when it concerns her safety and her feelings, but he is not a groomer in any shape or form. It's mentioned that Rhordyn avoids her like the plague to the point she never sees him around since he rescued her until in recent years. Orlaith is raised by Cook and Baze, Rhordyn wasn't involved in raising her at all nor did he act like a parental figure to her (more of this is even clarified in book 2 about what happened in the past). Her blood was even delivered by Cook to Rhordyn until she was able to do the offering herself and place it in the small door for him to take, it's even mentioned in the book Rhor was never involved in the act and he did so the first time when she refused to give him the blood offering. Orlaith did not grow up while being in love with Rhordyn, her feelings were only recent. Yes, there is a clear power imbalance between them that he uses to his advantage and protection comes in many "forms" even one that is very questionable. As Orlaith begins to rebel and ask questions Rhordyn is not ready to answer, he resorts to the influence he has over her and the unexplored connection between them to push her back.3. Rhordyn IS toxic but he is not the villain. Nothing that Rhordyn did was ever meant to harm Orlaith. He is the one who wants to appear toxic to her to push her away and to accept that he is a monster beneath. He finds relief in her ignorance merely because the fear that took root within him the day he saved her and tasted her blood will force him to confront the reality of their situation and of who they are to each other—and that is what he thinks might break Orlaith. It's very likely that they are mates.4. Not once has it been mentioned that Rhordyn had been inappropriate towards Orlaith or had shown any desire for her prior to the events in this book. Eventually, it's pointed out to which moment he actually started to feel more than just a protective instinct (as I said they have a unique connection that is likely a mating bond).5. Last but not least, I think Rhordyn directs so much self-loath at himself. I do not think he finds pleasure in what his instincts draw out of him especially when it comes to Orlaith. I don't think he relishes in their power imbalance either and I'll dive into that more when I talk about the mates and their bond. His self-loath is what influences a lot of his actions when it comes to her. Not justifiable in any way, but this is why this book is considered a dark fantasy romance. Nothing is coming easy for them.This doesn't mean Rhordyn's actions can be justified because what I love about this book is you can understand the questionable actions of the characters without the need to justify them.Sarah unfurls such a complex relationship with a tinge of taboo and yet underneath it all lies a thousand questions and secrets.I think the tabooness of their relationship is what haunts most readers, which is totally valid. But there is some clear misinterpretation that's confusing readers.The dynamic between Orlaith and Rhordyn is meant to unsettle the reader but also spark that intrigue and curiosity on where it could all lead to.Their relationship is dysfunctional and the power balance is very off, but for such a dark tale and for the sake of Orlaith's arc it should be done that way.Orlaith is not kept from the world, there is not much of the world out there to discover because it reeks of monsters and deaths.And perhaps, the world is kept away from Orlaith herself. She's the one with the mark of death.This is not a blossoming romance, it's tearing both Orlaith and Rhordyn apart. This longing, attraction, and anguish is a festering wound on their souls.The day Rhordyn had a sip of Orlaith's blood was the day the gods damned them both.As much as I have enjoyed the sexual tension and chemistry between them, neither of them are ready for any notion of a romantic love. Orlaith must break out of her confines and let her world expand beyond her tower—and Rhordyn must face his own demons. As of now, they are not a healthy option for each other, not until that power imbalance shifts and for Orlaith to experience what the world, and not Rhordyn, has to offer for her.And if they turn out to be mates, which I truly believe there are given the strong evidence in the book itself, I'm really intrigued by the concept of a mating bond that is not romanticized. Most of those who find their mates struggle a little or accept that they have found their one true love, and that bond mostly gives them little butterflies and an infinite love. The dark concept of mates in this world is a tragedy, at least for Orlaith and Rhordyn.Her voice may have been fragile, but everything else was the opposite. Her upper lip was curled with hate, she had fire in her eyes, and she looked at me like she saw through my skin to the monster I am beneath.Part of me was relieved—screamed for her to look deeper. To delve until she ripped herself on all my sharp bits. Perhaps then she’d see why I’m stuck in her orbit ... unwillingly.Why drifting too close would destroy everything.“Mates, Orlaith, are a fairy tale. A tragedy painted with the pretty face of a happily ever after, but at its core, it’s still a fucking tragedy. If you believe everything you read, you’ll be disappointed when you finally step into the real world.”They would be the epitome of star-crossed lovers.His eyes harden. “What I want, what I need, and what is right are three entirely different things.”To me, it feels that the source of Rhordyn's self-loath comes from how the bond influences his feelings for Orlaith. He is a man of complete control yet a force beyond his reach is slowly depriving him of that privilege and it pushes towards instincts that he may find... depraved.He seems to be tainted by her affections, not because they repulse him but because she is too good for him. He wishes that she could see the monster underneath his skin, probably in belief that it may deter her.It seems like a doomed love more than anything -me he knows it—and maybe it has to do with the prophecy?This is why I love Rhordyn as a character, there is so much to explore about him and while my morals can be questioned because of the type of characters I am drawn to, I only hope that we get to see his ice crack and he is caught up in Orlaith's fire.In the end, what matters to me is Orlaith's journey and I'm so excited to see where it will lead up to. I may be rooting for a second chance romance for her and Rhordyn but I'm rooting more for her happiness.