RE-READ: 06/17/20it's beenforeversince i last read thismy rating changed to 3 starsalso re reading this review is making me realize that i, in fact, have improved.2016 me was...not good at writing them LMAO12/26/16: EDITI'm rating this 4 stars because I'm realizing I'm not enjoying the rest of the books and I'm giving them low ratings. As of now, this is my favorite and I've given 1 and 2 stars to the next books, so this has to be 4 stars.Leaning back against Cam's chest, I tipped my head back and I reached up, cupping his cheek. I drew his mouth to mine and kissed him softly. “Thank you.”His lips curved up on one side. “For what?”“For waiting for me.”I actually didn't know J. Lynn was Jennifer L. Armentrout, but because I saw this book in my news feed once and was completely sold out based on the description, I obviously added it to my tbr. Little did I know that this was based on the same author that wrote theLuxseries, a series I didn't think I would love and miss so much. Jennifer actually blew me away with this one! I didn't know she wrote NA novels, and I didn't think she would write them this good. Her male leads are just so wonderful and amazing and I really wish they were real. She also gives out female characters that can be relatable and if they aren't, it's really easy to follow the way they're coming from. Although I had some problems with the beginning and Avery (main character) in the beginning, I enjoyed the rest, especially Cameron himself and the way the romance was actually delivered in this which is quite surprising.Wait for Youis about 19-year-old college freshman Avery that has just moved away from her Texas to Virginia to run away from her past--the Halloween night that she wishes to never think about again. She knows her parents don't love her, she knows her town hates her, and she knows she doesn't have any friends. Maybe moving into another town will be better and maybe she will be able to live a better life. Avery knows what she wants to do, and she plans on doing it all on time. She plans on getting to class on time, plans on keeping her bracelet on no matter what, and plans on making new friends and having a new and fresh start. What she didn't plan was running her small body into 6'3 college student Cameron Hamilton, known as a college hottie at this new university Avery is at. Little did Avery know that Cameron would comecrashinginto her life only to make it better.Cameron Hamilton has his own past to run from. It isn't like Avery's, but if you look at it, it has its similarities. He's also known as one of those guys that can get a girl he wants, but with Avery, it's different. Not knowing where Avery comes from and why she acts the way she acts around him, he wants to get to know Avery. She isn't like most girls, and that's what he likes about her. She's quite different. She's never been on a date, never been in a relationship, and the way she was treated back then was different. Cameron just wants to get to know Avery and understand her, but he can't do it if he won't get answers from Avery herself.Avery knows she needs to stay away from Cameron, but she can't seem to mainly because of him. He keeps coming into her life without caring what she thinks because he simply wants to form a friendship with her. She can't seem to stay away from his sense of humor, from his thoughtful charm, and from the way he acts with her. Maybe being with Cameron is the best for them since he's able to be himself around her, able to bring the good side of him around her. He doesn't act the same around Avery than he does with others, but instead he acts like the caring and sweet loving guy he is. Trying to show his caring side to Avery, Cameron won't give up on getting the one chance he knows will change his life.What Cameron doesn't know about Avery is her past, and she doesn't want him to know. He suspects something, but he doesn't know. She's received texts and emails and calls that are threats and even though Cameron knows he shouldn't get involved, he tends to get involvedbecause he wants to help Avery and understand her.Maybe allowing Cameron to help her would be for the best...I'd like to start this off with Cameron Hamilton. Cam, as he is called in this book, was probably the most swoon-worthy male lead I have ever read. There's reasons for that, and I'll get to that. Cameron is different than other NA male leads. He tends to take his time with Avery and not rush her into anything. He tends to care about her in any way possible because that's what he does, care about her. He tends to ask her permission to do something because he wants to make sure she's okay with it. And he tends to call her sweetheart instead of babe or baby and I found that utterly adorable.Cam has been added to many book boyfriends lists, and I don't blame those people. Of course, he's added to mine, along with so many others, but this one was a different kind of book boyfriend. It's the kind that I wish was real because of how charming and thoughtful he actually was with Avery. He showed his good side to her and when he was around her, he admitted things to her that she didn't think she would hear. Other than having beautiful and shimmering blue eyes, having the typical masculine body most NA males have including broad shoulders and a body that makes girls do things + broad shoulders and cheekbones, Cameron had a sweet, nice and soft spot with Avery that he didn't have with anyone else. He's got the perfect personality and sense of humour that any girl would want. What more would a girl ask for? When I said he asks Avery for her permission to make sure she's okay with what he's doing, I meanhe actually asks her if it's okay to take off her bra and to kiss her and to do things with her.Ya know, those typical steamy and hot things. He was caring with her by making sure she was okay and taking care of her, worrying about her and making sure she was okay. He took his time with her, not rushing anything and not wanting her to rush anything because he wanted everything to be a way they both wanted it to be.The other thing about Cameron is that he was able to show his funny side to Avery. The way he would deliver his conversation with Avery was just so cute and it had me giggling so many times. He's hilarious! How could I not love the guy? Also, I mentioned he called her sweetheart since the beginning? I found that to be so cute as well. He called her Avery when it was serious, but the whole "sweetheart" thing was just so cute, I couldn't get over it. Cam was different than other guys because he actually asked Avery to go out ona datewith him even though he knew he was in love with Avery already. I don't think insta love was involved, at least it didn't seem like it, but Cam did admit he was in love with her before he even knew it... Even with that being said, I loved how he kept asking her to go on a date with him and even when she said no over and over again, rejecting him again and again, he kept trying. He kept saying there was always tomorrow and that he can only hope, even when she said the answer was not going to change, I knew it was going to change. Obviously, the time where Avery would say yes to his question would come along sometimes, I was just waiting. He was so understandable and didn't care what her past was. I mean, of course, he showed his affectionate side and cared what happened, but he didn't love her any differently because of it. He loved her even more and was even more worried, but the way he was with her was just the best part of it. There wasn't one moment where Cam was mentioned or in that didn't have me giggling or squealing like a stupid little fangirl.Well, that is what I am so it makes sense.Avery was different and an interesting character. I didn't see where she was coming from when the novel started, but I was able to understand her after.I didn't think she was raped, but I knew something was wrong.Although I didn't expect this, I knew there had to be something similar in a way. Avery's character was hard to get into at first. I didn't feel a connection with her throughout the whole book, but I was able to understand her. I did feel tears coming along because every time I read a book that has to do withrape or abuse,I tend to get emotional. It just really bugs me how something horrific like that could happen especially to someone so young. No matter what the age is, it's something I hate reading about. It's just one of my biggest triggers even though I've read a couple of novels that involve either one of those or both. Avery's character was a little similar to those other characters in other books. She acted differently because of what happened and even if it was 5 years ago, there really isn't a way that person could forget about it. It's something that was, not haunting her, but something she couldn't forget. Her character made me sad sometimes, especially the way she acted with Cam at times when they were about to have sex or were making out. It was sad to hear her whole story but I'm glad she opened up to Cam and told her everything, expecting him to have a whole different reaction to the one he had.Her character changed throughout the book but what I loved about her was her sense of humor as well. She was able to bring Cam happiness and joy and laughter with her laughter and happiness. It was all just a bundle of happiness and joy. This wasn't a happy book, but most of it was. There were a lot of moments with Cam and Avery where they would have me laughing because of how cute they were and also because of how perfect they were together. They both understood each other so well and the way Cam came into Avery's life only to make it better was really all I needed to read about. Avery was able to change, for the better, and I was glad J. Lynn made her development better than what I expected. Although I hated her at times becauseof how she acted with Cam,I was able to understand why. The whole bracelet and wrist thing made me sad, but it was understandable. It brought her memories or it just made an effect on her, just like the time they were about to have a steamy moment but they both broke away from each other because Avery's mind went back to that cold night, only bringing back those awful memories she didn't want to think about. Avery went through a lot, I know that, and I although I don't know what it's like, I can see why she was how she was. It was hard for her to get a new start even with her 2 new friends and boyfriend. She was interesting, but she wasn't complex.I've said this many times, but I'm not the biggest fan of NA romance. I'm a bigger fan of reading how it's actually going to work out and reading about the dramatic drama. Of course, an NA novel needs to have 2 characters that both have something they are running away from or trying to change. If they didn't, there wouldn't be any drama behind it. J. Lynn created the perfect pair for this first novel, and I'm satisfied with it all. The romance wassteamy and hotwhich is typical in NA novels, but this one was one of the only ones I was able to read without laughing because of how hilarious the scenes were described. Like I said, Cam asked Avery for her permission and that is part of the reason Ienjoyedtheir "steamy moments." After knowing what happened to her, he asked her if it was okay to take her bra off, to kiss her in parts and totouch herwhich I found cute because he wanted to make sure she was okay.Ilovedhow, like I said, Cam loved Avery even more after she told him the truth. It was just so wonderful to see someone love their love even more because of their past. I don't even know if that sounds right, but I'm just glad Cam was able to look at Avery the same no matter what happened in the past. I love how Jennifer created this male lead and let me just say, if the rest are like Cameron, I will definitely be swooning over the whole series and males and pairs and pretty much everything by Jennifer. I had doubts about Jennifer's writing before reading her Lux series, and boy I shouldn't have doubted her.The problem with this is that, like many other NA novels,it felt like I have read this before.Different characterstold fromdifferent perspectives, but a lot of NA novels have to do with drama that has been told in other books but in different ways. I didn't really have expectations, not until I was beginning to suspect something was wrong with Avery, but I also didn't find it to be boring. Like I said, the book was actually pretty funny and fun to read thanks to Cam. Other than that, it was the typical NA novel. The reason I said it felt different is because ofthe characters.Luckily, JLA managed to created characters I didn't feel myself bored in and was able to like after understanding both.Jennifer has not become one of my favorites, but her writing is something I enjoy reading. It's something that can actually get me out of a reading slump because it's so easy to follow no matter what the book is about and where it's set. Her writing is the kind of writing I enjoy, easy to follow and enjoyable, and if it continues in the rest of the series, I'll definitely be considering her one of my favorite authors. I don't even know how she managed to do it butshe creates the perfect male leads.I completely fell in love with Daemon in the Lux series, starting from Opal because I hated him in Obsidian and slightly disliked him in Onyx, but then I was likeBOY why can't you be real?It's just the way she creates them, caring so passionately about their girlfriend or the girl they're in love with or whatever.Overall, the ending was also something I was satisfied with. There wasn't a cliffhanger, although there was a little snippet of Jase and Theresa (mostly Jase thinking which gets me wondering why). I'm excited to read the next book and finish the series, especially the next book which is about Theresa Hamilton and Jase Winstead, Cam's younger sister and best friend. Cam and Avery are a favorite couple of mine for sure and I know I will miss Cam's cute attitude with Avery, but I'm sure they will appear or pop up in the next book.