I just finished this book and I have a LOT to say so y'all better buckle upI knew it from the dedication, this book was gonna SLAP !First of all , Forbidden romance once again remains 🔛🔝 I may have been wrong when I said the 2nd book is my fav , THIS ONE IS DEFINITELY MY FAV ! Have you ever felt like you were minding your own business drinking a cup of tea in a cafe and out of nowhere a disgustingly happy couple passes in front of you with little hearts floating around them and you're reminded of how lonely you are ? Bcuz this is EXACTLY what happened to me . THE ROMANCE IN THIS BOOK IS THE TYPE OF SHIT THAT MAKES YOU QUESTION YOUR DEFINITION OF LOVE . this is what I mean when I say I want the characters to fall HARD for each other and suffocate when they're not together . With every minute I spent reading this book , my standards kept getting higher and higher ! Seriously when I had about 30 pages left I kept rereading every page bcuz I didn't want the book to end 😭Ras is the type of man women dream of ( I'm women ) like he knows what he's doing and looks hot while doing it . He's so soft for his Gemma and would literally give up his whole world for her . It made me wanna cry . his backstory was heart aching and I'm so glad we got to see him moving on from his trauma and finding his closure . Also Don't even get me started on him during the smut like man was fucking WILD istgg like reading smut is my coping mechanism so I got used to it but the shit he fucking said and did made my forget my own name .... If I don't get my hands on this man rn 🔪🔪🔪Gemma , my beautiful baby , the way I relate to her so much . This girl went through HELL ( and I mean it ) and managed to stay sane while literally being twenty yo, her story was so heart clenching I started crying , I wish I could hug her . She deserves THE WORLD . And her character development was the best , the way her vision changed and started seeing things differently... I ABSOLUTELY LOVED IT . COULDN'T BE MORE HAPPIER FOR HER ! HER CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT WAS EVERYTHING! and I absolutely loved the way her daddy issues and healing process were written like you can literally FEEL IT . I don't wanna dive into details bcuz I feel like anything I'll say is a spoiler but seriously Gemma is my fav fallen girl so far ! I was already on my toes to get inside her head and see her pov of things and she absolutely shaked me to my core . SHE WENT THROUGH A LOT .The plot was INSANE like I just love it when it's not only about the romance but also what's going on in their world and Gabrielle pulled that off ! The writing? Fucking INCREDIBLE like it was so smooth omg . ISTG I feel like a happy mom with all the characters getting their happy ending !The character I hate the most and u should too is Stefan Garzolo or Grazalo whatever that bitch's name is . This motherfucker made me so mad I wish he could fuxking get his dick cut off , his legs cut off , his hands cut off , his eyeballs stabbed , his tongue cut off and his body skinned alive over and over . I don't hate a single person in this whole word as much as I hate him . I would rather sit naked on a hot grill that even glance his way omfg .Anyways, the smut was so hot and THE PRAISE OMFG . Ras is just *sighs* ...amazing ."Crawl to me " IEBSJNEJDENJSNWKSSNEKSNSJSJSSNJSJSN SAY NO MOREI know I talked about this already but the romance in this book was amazing , maybe bcuz I haven't read a book in about 3 months bcuz life happened but I LOVED THE LOVE BETWEEN RASGEMMA like they FIGHTED for each other tho the one thing that disturbed me was the miscommunication at the end like we already have enough miscommunications irl we don't need that here but I get why it was necessary, the girl was fucking traumatized bcuz of her father , and that is another reason for mee to love Ras bcuz he healed her , seriously as I said he's PERFECT AND SO OBSESSED! And the emotions between them were so intense I felt like I was with them damnAlso If I don't get Cleo and her lover ( I don't wanna spoil ) story I'm gonna go insane , the moment HE was introduced in the book I fuxking lost it . I NEED HIIS BOOK RN OMG PLZ PLZ PLZ PLZ I'M BEGGING . also my Cleo needs more hype she's literally so incredible I fucking love her .This series has become my therapy atp . I LOVE THE FALLEN WORLD SM I CAN'T-In conclusion: this book gets a ★★★★★ stars , go read it rn !!!!This was just a fraction of what this book did to me bcuz I'm ruined rn and I can't stop thinking about it and my emotions are all over the place . just finished it and I already want to reread it .Thaank you so much Gabrielle for writing this wonderful love story . I hope you never get stuck in traffic , ur fav drink is miraculously in ur fridge , ur pillow is cold on both sides , and you're as happy as ur characters ! Also as a fan who's been there since the release of when she unravels , I just want to let you know that ur writing is getting better with each book ! And I'm so fucking happy for u , I feel like a proud mom omg !Keep up the good work xoxo