Extraordinary. What a series this is. Each book surpasses the previous. So much going on and it never really has much to do with how it starts. Maybe that might sound a bit confusing to you but if you had the pleasure of reading this series you know what I speak of.So I thought of a great way to review this book but it would contain way too many spoilers in a way and I believe I border on spoilers as is. Funny how some cry about the slightest spoil and yet so many of us can’t even remember the book we’ve just read days after we’ve read it. I’ll tell myself it’s because I’ve moved on to a new one but yeah right – lol. My point is I read about 15-20 reviews on GR a day and for mostly all different books. Like if there is a spoil in a review am I really going to remember it? C’mon seriously. Yet in having to appease the small minority who stamp their feet oh so loud at even an imagined spoil I will review this in a way that will no doubt not do this book the justice it deserves. I think I won’t be able to explain how well done, how well put together Maberry’s ideas truly are and quite frankly it might sound stupid at one level and yet with a spoiler or two I could have really opened some eyes as to the genius of Maberry. If you are a spoiler cryer maybe stick to the back of the book jacket and avoid reviews!! Finally on this point how many times has a spoil drawn you into a book you would have never considered???Finally – to the book. Joe Ledger our hero who works for the ultra secret Department of Military Science is in Iran to free three student hostages. The mission goes great but he is uncovered by a top Iranian official who wants to meet with him. When there is a red snipers dot on your crotch you pretty well will do what is needed. The Iranian official produces a flash drive in his possession that explains that there are 7 rogue nuclear devices in the possession of someone and that five are planted in oil fields across the world including one in Iran. The Iranian official wants DMS to assist them.During that meeting arch DMS enemy Hugo Vox is mentioned. He was instrumental in the last book the King of Plagues but this book can be read stand alone as enough of the last book is explained.So the book moves on to the nuclear angle. We learn that Hugo Vox has cancer. We learn that he offered up the nukes to a secret order known as the Red Knights. The Knights are lethal enforcers who work for the Red Order. The Red Order are part of the Catholic Church. That's quite a lot of info, lol. The red order is unsanctioned by the Church officially and led by a rogue priest Father Nicodemus – the same priest who founded it and who also appeared in the King of Plagues, the last Ledger book. Back in the 12th century when the crusades were happening two delegates representing Islam and Catholicism came up with a plan to end the crusades and kind of bring a somewhat haphazard plan of stability to the region. Maberry eventually gets so intricate here and I by no means can do it justice in a review. He teases you with the details from the beginning of the book not revealing what the plan actually is until p.318 of a 421 page book. I wanted to use excerpts of chapter 88 to show how Maberry so sells his ideas but I have to keep in mind the spoilers. So when this agreement became unofficially official the Catholics had no one as skilled as the Islamic Order of Assassins who were as lethal on their (Catholic) side. Yet Father Nicodemus new of a people who we learn are human but not of the same DNA as us. A banished people who the Father recruits convincing them they are gods creatures too and they were in fact chosen to be the assassins of the church in the same way the Order is for the Islamic side. This alter human species buys in and live in the caves and tunnels underneath cities throughout the world waiting to do as instructed by the Red Order. They are strong, powerful, quick and agile. Maberry sells them so well. Yet this species is weak in its own way and unable to breed. There are few women of their kind so they capture human women holding them in pens for breeding purposes. A little crazy but I have to touch on it to get to the faction of women who escaped the Knights and seek to expose them for who they really are and want to abolish them from existence. These women have formed an organization known as Arklight and they ultimately join forces with Ledger and the DMS to eradicate the Knights and resolve the nuclear issue at hand.So this unofficial agreement between the two religions has been going on for almost a century. The Knights though are realizing they are no more than slaves to the church. Their leader is tiring of the church, he is tiring of mankind. Vox knows of him as his great uncle was part of the forming of the Red Order and recruited the knights. He is aware that the Knights have great resources, have new medicine on their side to help with their health and improve their breeding chances. Vox has cancer and he meets with the leader of the Knights (Grigor) trading him the nukes for their serum hoping it cures his cancer. Grigor thinks the serum will in fact kill Vox but agrees to the trade seeing an opportunity to start a nuclear war and get rid of mankind as his species will thrive in a post nuclear war.So having written my review I think it went better than expected. A situation is never as dire as one thinks. Time and thinking it through tends to help out. (Yet 90% of you are likely thinking – what is this idiot talking about and what the hell did he read, lol). The ideas that Maberry comes up with for this series are unbelievable. They are well thought out. They are intricate and so buyable. The first one deals with bio terrorism and that basically is believable now with Covid – I mean the idea of a killer plague. The third is similar. This one, the fourth, centers on the conflict between two religions and you cannot deny that exists and it feeds off that tension and you as the reader are glued from the start.This guy can flat out right. I came across him in his Ghostroad Blues trilogy which is a different take on vampires. He seems obsessed by vampires and that was his first series. The writing in those books is incredible. The flowering of sentences and paragraphs was crazy. I remember reading actual paragraphs out to my wife and she is an avid reader and she too couldn’t believe the detail. I actually believe he was told to dummy it down as these books are different in that way from the first series I read. Don’t get me wrong they are phenomenal, just not as excessive with the wording. Is it sad that I keep rating things five stars? My massage therapist used to be huge on goodreads, reviewing and interacting with authors. I told her about the year I’m having reading wise and she thinks I’ve just been able to find my groove. I hope I haven’t jinxed myself. Onward I go, I highly recommend this one and this series. 😊