I’m not even sure where to begin. This is like the end of an era, but also feels like just the beginningI have read EVERY single werewolf book / series I can find, outside of the original Howling, nothing has drawn me in quite like Bane County did. Book 5 was no exception. I don’t think we see werewolf action until 50ish pages in, and I was still just zooming through the book. The whole time I’m wondering why all these nights have passed with no action. Well, we soon find out that they’re digging throughout the entire town. From here on out, it never really lets up. From Cain’s carnage across the US into Bane County, to Travis/ Luther finally arriving in Bane County.All hell breaks loose when Cain finally does make it into Bane County (Can I just say, Woof)The book ends with a (literal) bang as Cain and his new pack and the OG werewolves all clash with the remaining survivors. May Travis, Luther and Deke RIP.All the story lines merging into one felt natural and flowed smoothly. And I’m so hyped we got to see more of the mysterious red eyed demon, I’ve been wondering where he might be after the short story that was released.I’ve really only got small complaints.One: Shortly after Cain does arrive in Bane County, it’s stated he is going to teach his new pack to hunt, but from here on out, they just spend time turning people. (How big does he want this pack)Two: Cain’s story has spanned several books, and in the final battle, he’s nowhere to be seen. The book ends like he never existed. (I’m sure we will see him again)Three: I have a ton of questions. How old are the BC Werewolves? Where did they come from? Why do they differ in appearance from Cain? How many are there? Who is the red eyed demon?Why do the BC werewolves sometimes take whole victims alive, and sometimes just partial remains? Why do they always gather their own dead and what do they do with them?However, all that being said, the entire story was great from start to finish. They complaints I have are so minor and didn’t detract from the story. I’m also sure that most if not all of my questions will be answered in future works.JR Rice, another outstanding job, I’m very much looking forward to Dark Timber