Bird Boxoffers a well-known premise - the world as we know it suddenly coming to an end, and the few who survived trying to cope with the new reality - but with an interesting twist (certainly a desirable addition to the formula which, much as I enjoy it, is now beginning to resemble a really dead horse). This is both a good, and a bad thing - and the book is also both these things, as it began well but ended up being disappointing.The hook ofBird Boxis, like in much post-apocalyptic fiction, The Event: a phenomenon which single-handedly destroys the old world order, and usually also depopulates most of the planet*. A typical example of The Event is the Pandemic - such as the flu outbreak inThe Stand. The Cold War brough about the very real fear of a Nuclear Holocaust, when the possibility of nuclear powers annihilating one another and the world with them seemed very real. A great example of this is Nevil Shute'On the Beach- a moving novel, set in Australia after the nuclear world war which destroyed the northern hemisphere, and where the protagonists can only wait for the cloud of nuclear dust to reach the southern hemisphere and claim them too.There are other causes, of course, but these are easily the most popular.*A relatively common variant of depopulation has most people not actually dying, but losing their humanity and turning into strange creatures hostile to humans. A classic example is the global pandemic turning all of humanity into vampires in Richard Matheson's greatI Am Legend, whose protagonist - Robert Neville - is literally the last (hu)man on earth.Bird Box, although set in Michigan, begins with a series of events in eastern Russia - first reports of people inexplicably attacking others and murdering them, and taking their own lives afterwards. There seems to be no link between these events and people, except for one thing - all of them apparently saw something which affected them so badly that they completely lost their minds. Expectably, the phenomenon spreads across the Bering Strait and first reports from Alaska soon follow - and soon it's chaos and death everywhere.We met the protagonist, Malorie, a young mother hiding with two small children in a house somewhere in the suburbs of Detroit. The children have never seen the outside world - Malorie has been training them for over four years to hear and understand many different sounds, and be able to orient themselves with only their hearing, because she will need their ears to help guide them all on a journey across the river, towards what she believes to be a safe haven. To survive they must tie blindfolds across their eyes and not look at the world, where something might be waiting - something which only a sight of is enough to drive a person to insanity and murder.The novel alternates between the present day and Malorie leaving the house and rowing across the river, and flashback chapters which tell the story of how she came to be in the house with the children in the first place. She was pregnant when the chaos began to unfold, and through personal effort found solace with fellow survivors who barred their windows shut and covered them with carpets to block the insanity of the outside world. What follows is a typical societal microcosm - cabin fever, worry over dependence on shared resources, discussions on the nature of the horror. There's an existential question or two thrown into the mix, but it's all neither very deep or new - it's just another trope of this genre, its obligatory element.I purposefully avoided reading anything aboutBird Boxprior to reading it, and while I appreciate the author's creative idea - being forced to retire your sight and have to move about a hostile world depending entirely on hearing, smell and touch is terrifying as we realize how we depend on one sense almost entirely on one sense and understand the feeling of being blind. The threat of a something so inexplicably horrifying that the mere sight of it is enough to turn anyone insane is reminiscent of Lovecraft and his creations. All the factors are there - so why the low rating?To say it best, the novel simply didn't work for meas a novel. When I was a young boy I adored listening to radio theater - ofen when I was supposed to be asleep I'd smuggle my walkman in bed with me and put the earplugs in my ears, very late at night, to listen to the performance (to the big annoyance of my even younger brother, with whom I shared a room and who was just a kid who wanted to sleep). Being in the dark in a quiet house heightened my sense of hearing, and I could hear things I would otherwise be unable to notice. This is why I thinkBird Boxwould be a much better audio experience - especially when created specifically as a dramatization, with all the proper sound effects in their place. I would love to listen to a project like this - close my eyes and stop seeing, be unnerved, frightened and shocked by what I only could hear. It was especially interesting to learn that the author is a musician, someone who deals with and specializes in sound - just think of the possibilities!But this is obviously not the case, and as soon the novelty of the idea wore down, it became obvious that the book will not be a compelling study of fear and how it is manifested, but rather a pretty standard horror story depending on shock and plenty of "boo!" moments, when we're constantly going to be told how something unbearably scary is just around the corner. But this jack won't pop up from its box; while Lovecraft created an entire universe around his Elder Gods, the things which are happening in the book are purposefully left almost entirely to the reader's imagination. This isn't necessarily a bad thing, but in a novel based largely on the build up of suspense I found it to not be acceptable. I didn't demand a revelation, but I could take a few gospels - something to give momentum to my imagination, to let it spin. What I got was an ending which was too neatly tied, too ideal,too perfect; it felt like a cop out, an anticlimatic cheat. Perhaps I've been reading too much Cormier?To sum up - whileBird Boxis a book which shows promise, it unfortunately falls squarely into the box of those which didn't deliver. It's not a bad book, certainly not bad for a debut, but it marks more of the same territory - and we've been there and we've seen it before. For an intriguing novel which features creative and original take on blindness and its impact on human personality, please do check out Rupert Thomson's great and underratedThe Insult- one of the eeriest and weirdest novels I've ever read, and one of my personal favorites.