This book blew the last 2 in the series out of the water, but parents buying it for their FNAF-loving kids beware- the second story is fucked up.Spoilers ahead.Story 1 was Blackbird, a tale about 2 college classmates who have to create a horror film for class. Their idea is to create a homemade Blackbird animatronic costume reminiscent of Poe's The Raven. In their script, the Blackbird will haunt a guilty man, driving him mad. But then the plot comes to life as one of the boys is revealed to have his own guilt...Story 2 was an emotional doozy. We read horror as a way to safely experience fear, and what's the ultimate fear of all people? Death. Obviously all horror has death but this story was all too realistic and did not spare any details. Maggie is a live-in nanny in her mid-20's to a 9 y/o boy who has the worst possible freaking luck. His mother dies, his dad's enlisted and has to travel long periods for his job, leaving Maggie to deal with the poor boy's medical issues- he has a rare type of brain cancer and is quickly deteriorating for the duration of the story.Whike this tale was the furthest stretch from the fnaf fandom due to its lack of connected lore (there was a cpl mentions of a local arcade and the robots he loved so much but that's literally it) it was likely my fave bc it's horrifying. No one wants their kid to escape into a fnaf book just to actually get The Fear we adults deal with, contemplating their own imminent demise. This story needs a child's nsfl warning. Anywhoo, it's revealed the child's imaginary friend who lives in the cabinet in the boys room is a doll with a baby monitor. Maggie n the father use it to help get Jake's mind off the fact that he's dying, making up stories of the day's adventures that "Real Jake" does. IRL Jake is so weak from the last rounds of chemo and his meds he cannot walk or even get an appetite so the doll goes undiscovered. Then as a triple whammy the kid's dad is killed in duty and Maggie is devastated. Jake's actively dying so, now having custody of the poor boy, decides to put him in hospice for the dying. I won't spoil the twist, but this story does NOT let up, and does not have any fnaf reheated redeeming qualities aside from being very well written lol. I wouldn't want my own 9 y/o to read it and start worrying about losing her own parents and life so we will just skip thus one for bedtime yall.Story 3 features- FINALLY- Bonnie. This kid works at a Fazbear's pizzeria. His bro used to work there and got all the high scores on every arcade game- his bro beats him at everything else in their lives too. So naturally our narrator is obsessed with beating his bro in the most unhealthy way. A new game called Hide and Seek featuring our long eared friend opens up and he sees his chance to finally get #1 on the leaderboard but finds it's too hard to beat fairly. So of course he cheats and chaos ensues.The short epilogue here ties up some split ends about the Stitchwraith, which is possessed by both Andrew and Jake's souls. They've used the Stitchwraith to gather various animatronics and haunted parts to destroy them, and their own vessel, in a trash compactor. Larson the detecrive finds then but bit before they successfully smash themselves. Though they glubbed up- the evil energy (which was described more in one of the past epilogue featuring the scientist and the Stitchwraith's origins) is released, allowing it to form a new monstrosity of an animatronic, pieced together Mangle-style. Larsen divulges to his quarter that he witnessed the Stitch race destroying items that came from Fazbear entertainment distributions Center as well as from the site where the late serial killer William Afton died. He also Muses that maybe the ghosts or Specter that he witnessed coming out of the destruction belongs to children that Afton killed or maybe it was after himself. But I am assuming after that previous epilogue discussing at length evil energy from Haunted items that it is something of that nature. The new mangle like creature was described to be about 15 ft tall with two rabbit ears that unfolded from the back of its head in canted forward and the detective seems to be in a hell of a lot of trouble now because he doesn't realize it's going on so we will see what happens in the next set of books to see if there's any sort of resolution with this odd background story in all of the epilogues!