'Castaways' by Brian Keene is trashy. I debated with myself whether I should give this horror novel one star or two. I decided one-star-and-a-half which means effectively two stars because of Goodreads' refusal to allow half stars. Why the bump up? I WAS intrigued by the incredible lowbar awesomeness of the author's writing.I was often left with my mouth open at certain turns of the story. Not that there was anything particularly original. This is a common plot familiar to viewers of the Syfy channel's horror movies with lots of sadistic and gory mayhem. Syfy's movies often involve a bunch of young stereotypical characters who are caught up in the middle of a mass killing from an insane psychopathic group, family or serial killer. However, the book not only has an unexpected soap-opera tone of hysterical proportions, the author has included in this novel an incredible rollcall of exceptionally prurient and gross vulgarity of the type of movies "USA's Up All Night" (1989-1998) used to show.Quoted from Wikipedia about USA's Up All Night for those too young to have seen this show and older readers with high-end sensibilities:"The program consisted primarily of low-budget films, bookended by in-studio or on-location comedy skits featuring the show's hosts. In addition to skits, the hosts would also provide sardonic comments about the featured film(s), and observations on various Hollywood- and/or New York City-area clubs and attractions (when the series was shooting out of studio). Including commercials, the program typically ran from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m.The movies aired ranged from cult classics, to B movies, to other fare not appearing on television frequently. Up All Night would regularly show sexploitation films, with the explicit content edited out."https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/USA_Up_...I realize my having such an in-depth knowledge reveals my tolerance of these trashy movies, if one is to put it in the best light. Truthfully, I indulge in juvenile soft-porn slapstick or salacious and stupid horror movies when I'm very bored and tired. In my favor, I cannot watch the recent 21st-century horror movies or TV shows at all, though.They have become WAY too gross!Sorry to disappoint, gentle reader.*ahem*Are you familiar with the TV series called 'Survivor?' Sixteen contestants volunteer to become isolated from all civilized comforts in order to compete for money prizes. A team of camera operators and sound technicians and a host follow the contestants about while the contestants compete in teams against each other to speedily solve tasks given them by the show's producers. They often have to win food and other small amenities of comfort while becoming exhausted from living in too-harsh conditions for weeks. At certain times they vote a person off the island in strange and convoluted machinations.I watched this show once. Peculiarly, I can't handle real-life gross visuals, even though I find fictional gross-outs funny. To a point.https://youtu.be/BhKQBTJME5oRight, the book review is why you are here...A group of people from various walks of life have signed contracts to compete for a million dollar prize by living on an island for some months. The island is deserted. Supposedly. You know the drill. There be something or some things in the unexplored caves nobody got around to examining. Hungry things.Regular and normal Jerry and Becka discover they like each other. Stefan is a callous stuffed shirt and Matthew is weird. Pauline is a blond bimbo. Shonette is a sassy mom with young kids at home. The production crew includes a shallow host and disinterested techies just doing their jobs living in comfort aboard a nearby support ship. And so on. I don't really need to go on with character introductions, do I.Big typhoon suddenly strikes the deserted island. Communications fail along with the survivors' camping stuff. The ship's technicians don't know what is going wrong on the island. And some things are coming down from the caves. They are hungry. Bizarrely, they are horny for human women also.I am now going off on a rant, a little sideways, gentle reader. Why would unhuman things crave human women for sex and not the men as well? All Humans have tight orifices, right? Why are unhuman things, monsters, cryptids, and space and ocean creatures always so choosy about human flesh they want to rape before they devour it? Why do busty slender human women always end up as objects of desire for non-human creatures with no or few human features except the, I guess necessarily implied (not in this book, though), penis?Come on. Really?Ok then. Back to the book review. If I've roused you into some interest in this novel, be warned these hairy monsters have graphically described HUGE heavily-veined dripping smelly icky penises. That might make one feel less roused. It did reduce what little interest I had mustered up, gentle reader.