Loved it! Wished the 2nd book was out already. If you’re a sci-fi fan who has yet to read aNicholas Sansbury Smithnovel…well then, shame on you!Nicholas Sansbury SmithThis is a must read for anyone who enjoys a good apocalyptic, zombie-esque, horror, suspense, or medical thriller. There isn’t too much of any one of these elements inExtinction Horizonthat would lead me to believe a reader with interests in ANY of the aforementioned genres wouldn’t thoroughly enjoy this new series.Nick gives us very believable characters with solid backgrounds and not too much telling. The characters range from all levels of military personnel to scientists of high caliber, not to mention some truly terrifying monsters that could only be imagined by someone who has done their research into the realistic possibilities of such an outbreak. I wouldLOVEto find someone to do some concept art around what these creatures look like. The way they are described in the story is so chilling and creepy and I can’t help but think that the way I picture them in my mind isn’t even close to how freaky they would actually be.Taking the already fear inducing Ebola virus, Nick contrives a truly terrifying and real story about what would happen if such a virus were transformed into a biological weapon, and what the implications would be to the entire human race. The amount of research done to be able to interweave virology, genetic mutation, and evolutionary biomechanics is astounding and cannot be overlooked; especially if you already have an interest in these subjects. Nick does a great job of including these as very prominent and important aspects of the book but does not go into so much scientific detail so as to take away from the nature of the story and the people living it.Here are some other things I liked:-The scientifically grounded theory regarding primal/dormant genes still contained in our genetic code.-No real solid solution to the outbreak. Such as every single virus and bacteria in the world, it doesn’t affect everyone the same and the mortality rates do not apply to all, as there are always going to be a small fraction of people who are naturally immune to any given disease. We see this in the very climactic and action-packed ending to the first book in this series.-Humanity doesn’t completely disappear from the monsters due to where the mutation originated and how it maintains symbiosis with the host. Humanity just reverts back to a much more primal, archaic, and violent time in our species’ history.-No real romantic plot to get in the way of the action.-Government conspiracies-Life isn’t about“happily ever afters”and neither is this story. This makes it so much more realistic. The good guys don’t always win and the bad guys don’t always get what’s coming to them.-There is going to be a sequel to the story but I didn’t feel likeExtinction Horizonended in a way where waiting for the next book would be out of the question. I finished feeling very fulfilled but will still be very excited to continue with the story.-Last, but definitely not least, I totally enjoyed the absolute gruesomeness of this read. There are some truly horrific and terrifying things that happen in this book and Nick didn’t hold any punches.I will continue to read Nick’s books as I truly consider him to be a great author who brings a fresh new take to the sci-fi genre. There aren’t many books out there anymore that can not only keep me on the edge of my seat, buy hold my interest so completely that I’m constantly thinking about when my next break at work will be so I can keep reading.I received a free eARC from the author in exchange for my honest review.