Thank you so much to Tor Teen, NetGalley, and Kristen Simmons for providing me with an ARC of this book!I want to start off by saying that I really thought I was going to enjoyFind Him Where You Left Him Dead. I have read two of Kristen Simmons’ other books, (The DeceiversandScammed), and I was blown away by how compelling their plots were, how lovable the cast of characters in the books were, and how believable and heartwarming the characters’ relationships were. Plus, I am a huge fan of YA paranormal horror books, so when I first saw this book listed on Kristen Simmons’ Goodreads page in 2021, I knew I had to get my hands on it. A book in a genre I love by a favorite author of mine should have been so much fun to read, and I was fully expecting to adore this one.I also want to say that I only request ARCs that I am expecting to rate 4 or 5 stars. Again, I went into this book really expecting to love it. Unfortunately, I was incredibly disappointed by it.First off, Kristen Simmons begins this book with one of my pet peeves: introducing us to the characters by stating what hobbies they have rather than creating distinct personalities for them. Yes, I remember that Dax plays guitar and Maddy swims, but their voices were so unmemorable, and their personalities so bland, that I would not have been able to differentiate the characters if their names hadn’t been at the top of the chapters they narrated. It’s fine for characters to have hobbies, but I hate it when hobbies are the only source of characterization for a character, and that was definitely the case here.The opening chapters of the story were fairly mundane, even though they each ended with a paranormal event. It’s strange how a certain writing style can turn what would be a terrifying event into a run-of-the-mill reading experience. I kept telling myself that the book would get better once the plot got going, but once the characters entered the underworld (Meido), my reading experience deteriorated further.There’s a difference between having your characters be unclear about the world they’re in and just not explaining details that should be explained. I understand that Kristen Simmons made the stylistic choice for the world and the structure of the challenges to be confusing; however, that choice made it difficult for me to get invested in the story.Stories that deal with survival games, likeSquid Game,Alice in Borderland, and evenThe Hunger Gamesare compulsively consumable because of their rigid structure; we know that the characters are going into a game setting where the rules are unclear at first. But once the characters are in the arena, the rules are explained very clearly, so the audience can watch the games with bated breath, hoping that their favorite characters don’t break the rules, and knowing the exact moment when they do, because the rules are exact and absolute. Remember inSquid Game, when you watched a character make a crack in their ppopgi, and you were seized with horror, knowing what was about to happen as a result? There are no moments like that in this book.It’s so hard to feel any sort of suspense when you don’t know what constitutes a mistake in Meido. It’s also hard to feel suspense when you don’t really get to know (and therefore don’t care about) any of the characters in the book.The character relationships in this book are quite weak as well. The protagonists are estranged childhood friends, and the story is supposed to follow their journey as they repair their fraught friendships amidst the horrors they face in Meido. However, Kristen Simmons employs another pet peeve writing tactic of mine: she repairs the characters’ friendships by essentially making them forget that they stopped being friends. This really isn’t a spoiler, because the character relationships are such a weak element of the book, and the story is not impacted by them much at all (and yes, that is another problem I have with the story).It is so uninteresting to read about a character relationship that is fixed with a convenient magic wand. This erased any semblance of tension that existed between the characters, and ensured that I wouldn’t be able to believe anything about their relationships with each other. There was no organic, on-page relationship development here; just the writing telling me over and over that these characters were best friends again.There’s also a painfully forced romance that is created with a similarly convenient story device rather than any on-page chemistry building, which is yet another pet peeve of mine.Continuing to talk about convenience in relation to this book, the story was not compelling during any of the challenges, because they were won so easily that there was never any time for me to worry about whether or not the characters would make it.Kristen Simmons’ take on Japanese mythology and Meido was interesting, but even some of the myths present in the story were not explained clearly enough to haunt or scare me. For example, I did not know that Kuchisake had a sequence of asking questions that were impossible to answer until I looked it up. To me, Kuchisake was just a creepy, lovesick man, not a character who would either cut your face or flat-out kill you depending on how you answered his questions.Also, there were several jokes about concussions here. One of them was along the lines of “Haha, she’s acting funny, has she sustained a trauma to the head?” Concussion jokes will never be funny. People who act strange after sustaining a head injury feel scared and out of control, and making a joke about it is cruel on a level I didn’t know Kristen Simmons was capable of. I don't think Kristen Simmons was being deliberately cruel, but it was thoughtless, and I'm sad that concussion jokes have been so normalized in media. I know several people who have struggled with long-term concussion recovery, and the innumerable amount of concussion jokes that pollute the media will never be funny to me.Additionally, this book is not a paranormal horror, it’s a fantasy. A paranormal horror typically has a few elements of horror while remaining grounded in reality, and this book had a completely different world with a fantastical geography and fantastical creatures. Plus, since all of the creatures are revealed at once, there is no build-up of fear where the reader is wondering, “what could be behind all these strange occurrences?” There is no psychological aspect to the horror in this book at all, so to me, it’s not really a horror book.I think this book would be more successful if it was marketed as a YA fantasy book, but even then, the characters are so one-dimensional, and the plot so half-baked, that I don’t see how anyone could enjoy this book without major revisions to the story. I know that I read an ARC, so I hope there is time for major changes to be made before this book is published.The sentence structure of the prose was very confusing at times, which could be attributed to the fact that I read an ARC, or it could be a flaw in the prose, I’m not sure.There were a few twists at the end of the story, some of which I was pleasantly surprised by, and one that was so blatantly foreshadowed, I saw it coming from the beginning. I appreciate that Kristen Simmons carefully planned the twists in the story, and that some of them were surprising while still being believable. That’s something I can always count on when reading a book by Kristen Simmons.I am surprised that Kristen Simmons wrote this book, though. I am so used to reading compelling, stellar works of literary brilliance from her that I am truly baffled at how the amazing concept of this novel could be executed in such a lackluster manner. It was tedious to read, and it took me several months to finish because I was so uninvested that it was hard to pay attention to the story.Overall,Find Him Where You Left Him Deadwas a complete miss for me. If you’re looking for a compelling YA paranormal horror that follows a group of teens as they navigate a paranormal world and have to pass through different gates to make it home, I suggest picking upRules for Vanishingby Kate Alice Marshall instead. It has basically the opposite of all of the story flaws I’ve been talking about; it has memorable characters with believable relationships, lots of psychological horror and mystery, and a clearly-defined structure.