This is a poorly written synopsis, not a review.Spoilers ahead.Book opens with a flashback of how Angela and her daughter came to be on the roof. (from the first book).Angela awakes in the metal storage container where she is deikf held prisioner. Jerry comes in and tells her that she can coke out of the container to see her kids if she keeps her mouth. shut about Jerry killing Bus.Joseph and Doc Hamilton are back at Smithfield hospital studying the captured female.At Camp rydee Professor White was getting on Jerry's nerves. Jerry sends White on a scouting trip with some other guys to OP Lillington. Greg broke both of White's knees and left him for dead.Angela confides in Keith that she saw Jerry kill Bus. She thinks Bud's fianl words "take it" were reffering to take back the camp.LaRouche and Jim's group are headed to blow a bridge. They have been unable to contact Camp Ryder via radio. (since Ryder took their Radios off line during the take over) . There is some disagreememt about heading back or moving ahead. LaRouche decideds they will move ahead. One guy, Nick, decides to head back on foot. He sneaked out in the middle of the night.Lee is scavenging around in some houses trying to piece together what happened to him. He has his dog with him. Lee gets captured by some other scavengers. The infected come out and everyone runs to a waiting van. In the van is former deputy Shumate. (from the hospital shootouts in book 2?)LaRouche, Jim, and company are making their way to their destination. They come across a group of The Followers nailing some people to crosses. LaRouche's co. initiates a firefight killing all but one. One of LaRoiche's guys,Lucky, gets shot and dies. LaRouche takes the survivor that killed Lucky to a warehouse and tortures him to get Intel about The Followers. Layer Jim gets in his butt about killing the guy.Back at the hospital a group of survivors shows up but Doc Hamilton wont let them in. They say that LaRouche told them to come here. Doc tells them they are on their own. Jacob has enough, goes back to his room, gets his gun and kills Hamilton and the two guards. Jacob tells the survivors that he will help them if they help him.The other group with Harper and Julia run across a group of about 20 survivors. The two groups exchange some info. However, a situation happens where one of the guys tries to steal a gun, and gets shot by one of Harper's guys (Mike). The other group just leaves.Lee gets taken out on a scavenger run. While Shumate and a couple others are out scavenging, Lee jumps ??? and kills him, along with the girl. Shumate and the others come back just as Lee is finishing. Lee runs away from the van, into a nearby store. He and the dog make it onto the roof.Back at Camp Ryder, Sam witnesses a couple of Greg's guys kill Keith the old guy. Sam runs off, but the two goons see him. They tell Greg and Jerry. Jerry has Greg go tell Sam to keep his mouth shut, or they will kill Angela. Meanwhile, Jerry tells Angela that they can't find Keith, kind of implicating that she is involved. This is to cover that they killed him.LaRouche and crew take the girl the found on the road while fighting The Followers. They take her to where she said she lives. They arrive and no one is around. They see a guy, who winds up being the girls father. Some Z's show up and set upon LaRouche. He makes it back into the HMV, but when someone kills the Z, LaRouche gets some Z gore in his mouth. Now he's concerned he is infected.Harper's group hears a large group of Z's coming down the highway. They jump in the vehicles and take off. There are thousands of Z's. Tori realizes that Mike, her husband, got left behind. Harper has Julia turn the hmv around and go get Mike. The get Mike but get the horde catches up with them. Gray is up in the turret and gets killed. Harper yells at Mike for going off to la la land, after he killed the guy from the other group that tried to take the gun.Lee wakes up on the roof. The Z's are gone but Shumates crew is still hanging around. He's in bad shape. severely dehydrated and serious infection in his head from the gun shot wound. He manages to sneak up and kill the kid, the shoot Shumate and Aaron as they are coming out of a building. Lee take the meds Off Shumate and gets some water and a candy bar out of the van. He sleeps in a sporting goods store.Angela confides in Marie about the situation with Jerry killing Bus and Greg killing Keith. Marie decides to head up on the roof and try to use Morse code to see if any if the other groups are watching Camp Ryder. Capt Tomlin replies back via Mose code that he is still out there. (seems like a strecg to me.)Mike, with Harpers group, goes nuts and kills his wife and then himself.Lee wakes up, goes to the roof where he left his dog Deuce, and then leaves town in the van. After driving for a bit he comes across some signs and realizes that he is close to Op Lillington. He is past exhausted and has a hard time staying awake, but wants to make it to Lillington. He ends up crashing into a car on the road. Jacob, Tomlin, and some others find him and bring him back to Op Lillington. Then bring him back up to speed on what is going on.Angela is trying to, covertly, gather people that are also against Jerry.LaRouche and Jim get in a fight after LaRouche walks off in the middle of the night. LaRouche is drunk and Jim gets the upper hand in the fight giving LaRouvhe a little ground and pound. LaRouche gets on top but can feel Jim going for what he thinks is a rock. LaRouche thinks Jim is going to kill him so he takes out his pistol and shoots Jim in the head,killing Jim. LaRouche runs off(away).Lee and Tomlin. deliver another note to camp. Lee is able to whisper to Marie through the fence that he is alive. Marie and Angela prepare to work with Lee and crew the next night at midnight.Jenny is sleeping with Greg. She is worried that Greg is going to get killed in the ensuing takeover. she tells him what is going on. Greg tells Jerry. Greg and crew come take Angela away from her shantie. Sam and Abby are being watched while they pretend to sleep. When Greg comes back for the kids Sam grabs his .22 and shoots the guard 6 times. Sam and Abby run off but get captured at the fence.Marie is able to get away from camp after she jams a knife up Arnie's crotch.LaRouche comes across a guy in the woods and is taken prisoner...by The Lord's Army.Jerry is beating Angela pretty good trying to get her to divulge. who is going to storm the camp. She's not giving in. Jerry has Abby brought up so he can hurt her or make her watch her mom get hurt.Lee, Tomlin, and crew storm Camp Ryder. As they are breaching the fence, a group of Hunters (Z's) also join the mix. Jacob gets killed by the Hunters. Lee and Greg have a death match. Lee takes a GSW to his side, and ends it with a shot to Greg's eye.Jerry got stabbed in the neck by Angela. He went and hid in a room during the raid by Lee. Lee finds him nearly dead, and plucks the tire gauge in his neck. Jerry bleeds out.LaRouche decides he will join the Lord's Army.