A good collection of short horror stories that falls flat due to distasteful and disgusting social commentary.Man I was really look forward to reading Happs but it crashed and burned with the inclusion of B-7. B-7 unintentional or not is riffle full of toxic conservative ideology that's absolutely dangerous and so heartless to include. The first two stories were really strong but B-7 was massively weak. Horror similar to bigoted arguments shouldn't be made. B-7 scared me for the wrong reasons.The only good thing about this collection was Happs and Help Wanted in terms of weird concepts and scary monsters. Help Wanted perfectly gave Wandavision vibes with how much it touched on fake realities. Happs was a perfect Black Mirror esc story that explored the importance of not being cruel to machines. The themes connected are very cleverly as this collection empahises cleverly be careful what you wish for. Apart from B-7 the horror was very good and it has me very hopeful about some of the other collections.Okay there's a lot to break down so I'm just gonna point out the best parts of this novel and the worst parts of this novel as its a very mixed back and rather then this is terrible don't read it I'm gonna let you decide. But if you are Trans or Autistic please proceed cautiously with B-7 or skip it all together. Happs is one of the darkest fnaf collections even darker than Fazbear Frights.Okay so onto the negatives.The political right wing undertones. Often the left are acussed of shoving "woke" ideology into everything when B-7 the final story was full of it. It wasn't just an Anti-Trans allegory either as an Autistic person Billy's parents reminded me of people who struggle to cope with neurodivergent kids especially the way Billy isolated from all the other kids. It was terrible and knowing that the Fnaf fan base is full of neurodivergent and queer people makes it even worse for. Language like "fit what's on the outside" is how many trans people describe Gender Dysphoria and "We just need to feed his delusions." is how many parents of autistic children will react to special interests. I tried to get into the story and ignore it but the themes were too shoved down my throat I couldn't. I've never felt so disturbed for the wrong reasons in my entire life.Secondly this is mainly a hit at the Epilogue but Cawthorne and the writer's still don't know how to write child protagonists. Jace and Aiden were really annoying until they started running from Happs and the group of kids at the carnival were stereotypical as heck and not intresting. Unrequited love, jock bully's it'd all been done before. I also found that the teens were acting younger than teenagers. I think Fnaf stories are so much better when we focus on Adults take Help Wanted for example was really effective and powerful cos Steve despite being a Cawthorne self insert was someone we wanted to route for. I also found that Happs was trying to justify Aiden and Jaces actions and it would have worked better if they were in their late teens. Hopefully future Tales stories can fix this issue.Finally the concepts themselves. Hated B-7 all together but Happs and Help Wanted were stories that much better suited a movie, a video game or a full novel. Those two ideas were not made for a short story as I would have felt much more scared during Help Wanted if the horror Steve had to deal with was actually on screen. Happs felt like a slasher movie with half the cast it needed cut down. Both ideas were too bold for the very cut down format of a short story collection. I wanted the characters better fleshed out and I felt like the twist with Steve in Help Wanted would have sunk deeper if we'd seen further of his life in that rubbish job or made it Truman Show like instead of Wandavision.Now with the negatives out of the way onto the positives.The horror is so much better than the first Tales Collection or even some of the frights. Ignoring the fact B-7's horror shook me for the wrong reasons. I was scared and tense whilst reading this novel, I felt uncomfortable, sympathetic for the characters and desperate to see how the tale would end. Bit risky to do in a collection aimed at middle graders but man they did not hold back. Help Wanted and Happs especially had quite alot of claustrophobia which made it even more disturbing. The gore was really sinister too and I had genuine times I needed to put the book down out of pure shock and terror. Happs as a collection will live you spooked.Secondly the pacing. Approximately 15 collections in and the writing team have finally got a hang of the pacing. You can really tell how much they've grown in terms of figuring out the right pacing. Even B-7 as much as I loathed it was paced in a very simple way to the point it was able to tell the full timelined story it wanted to tell. Happs although repetive felt like the eiree slasher chase it was meant to be and Help Wanted was well paced from start to finish even with the time skips. These stories were much better then previous novels due to being the nesssacary pace a reader could cope and agree with.Finally the variety. In the past I've felt a lot of stories in other collections very similar but Happs, Help Wanted and B-7 were unique distinct orginal stories with only a thread of common themes connecting them. All three stories had their own distinct stories that had me very engaged (sometimes for the wrong reasons) and interested in how the characters would escape their peril. Even the 2nd Epilogue tried to contrast from the one in the first book. Help Wanted is more psychological horror, Happs is slasher horror and B-7 is dystopian horror. There's a story here for everyone to enjoy.Overall a good collection until it became the worst collection with the inclusion of B-7. There's something you might get out of it if you squint hard enough. Not the best but it's up to you to decide if you want to check it out.Overall Rating: 2.5 Stars ⭐️⭐️💫My rating for each story individually goes as followed:Help Wanted: 4 Stars (Great but Steve was not fleshed out as much as he should have been)Happs: 4 Stars (Spooky Black Mirror Like Story That Has A Rocky Beginning)B-7: 2 Stars (Deeply disgusted and uncomfortable. Poor story)Epilogue 2: 4 Stars (A good Epilogue but core cast was too stereotypical)