It is important to note that the majority of the themes explored in this book deal with sensitive subject matters. My review, therefore, touches on these topics as well. Many people might find the subject matters of the book as well as those detailed in my review overwhelming. I would suggest you steer clear of both if this is the case. Please note that from this point forward I will be writing about matters which contain reflections on abuse, child endangerment, violence, parental neglect, psychological distress, violence against a child, the death of a child, grief, & others.I won’t lie to you—I skimmed the bulk of this book. I always begin reviews with a recap. I go through, as a tertiary party, & reflect on what has taken place in an attempt to draw myself into what I have to say. I do not necessarily feel the need to do that in this case because the redundant, flippant nature of the horrifically mundane, trite, & dull plot was so graphically corny that my mind clocked out when the first hand struck the hour. This is very harsh criticism, I understand that. However, in 1993 R.L. Stine published “Night of the Living Dummy” for young readers & was able to incite, in under 200 pages, what this novel failed to glimpse in over 400.The reader meets Louise & is immediately aware of the lack of direction this story will undertake. The story circles around itself endlessly—all without reason. I became confused as to whether the author was simply trying to render Louise an unreliable narrator or if they had actually forgotten that we as the reader were meant to be engaged & attentive to the material they were presenting. Louise’s character adds to the false premise of security. Certainly, there are reasons why she is this way; always believing herself to be the only person on earth who had a less-than-stellar experience at some point in life. Though this ignorance might have added to her narrative it was incredibly dull to have to read.At once Louise tells the reader that she was never given anything by her parents, though certainly, money must grow on trees for her to have been able to have all the luxurious extracurricular activities that she was able to pursue on a whim. Yet, we then read that her family was in fact very financially insecure for several years of her childhood so, why does she believe that everything money can buy is her due? Louise tells the reader that money from her parent’s inheritance would help her buy a house with a yard so she could have a dog & give Poppy, her daughter, more freedom. Then, she turns around & tells us that she lied to Poppy for her complacency—she’s never going to buy a dog.What does this add to the story? I do not think that Louise is unreliable, I think that she is a poorly constructed character. This is supported by the same lack of continuity within the story at large. For example, in one scene Louise has not yet cried about her parents’ death. When she lay on her childhood bed she began to cry for the first time. This is evidently forgotten by the author because a couple of chapters later Louise is described as crying for the first time with Constance.This same formula is employed throughout the novel for a multitude of things which leaves me feeling that the author lost track of their original intention. I can appreciate that Louise felt disconnected within her family unit because her parents seemed to be coddling her brother, Mark, even when it seemed he didn’t deserve it. I suppose it’s an act of sheer ignorance that keeps Louise from noting her own failures as a human being. Her focus is locked into all the shortcomings of her brother, whom she cannot fathom as being anything less than a burden on society. I mention this fact because I grew tired of hearing about their quibbles. This is also why I reference R.L. Stine’s 1993 book—this relationship is identical to the one that the sisters share in his book.Wouldn’t it have been wonderful to have seen one member of the family act like a fully formed entity within this plot? Am I meant to think it’s funny that Mark has to attempt to validate his emotions after his sister sliced his arm off? Are we meant to all laugh & giggle about silly Mark, who almost died & was denied his experiences, trying once again to find solace in the heart of a person who was as hollow as the Tin Man? I think not.The crux of this story is technically one I might be interested in watching play out in a cinematic medium. Poltergeist stories are incredibly difficult to write. I believe that the author has to have the trust of the reader, before anything else, so that the reveals are subtle; actions leading the reader to question how they might interpret the situation if it were happening to them. I should not be laughing & rolling my eyes while reading about a demon-possessed hand puppet that is trying to murder & possess human beings.Though this story has been done a thousand times, a skilled author—someone with a mind for details & gore—would be able to present the essence of this fear in a way that makes a reader forget its familiarity. I should not be reading a book & think about all the times I had seen this same premise carried out in smoother strokes. I cannot fault someone for trying something; I know this book will be loved by many readers. Thankfully, the world is filled with people who are different from me—it’s part of our charm as human beings, there are so many of us, all a bit different though similar, to one another.Because of this fact, I can appreciate that some readers will come across this book & appreciate the cheesy dialogue. They won’t care that Pupkin—the poltergeist—leaps out of a closet like a demented frog in the middle of the night to hound a child who would just as soon forget he exists as spent her lifetime of energy following his orders. What would Pupkin achieve by having everyone kill each other? Genuinely, where do you go when the family that houses you is dead? You’re a puppet, you can’t just waltz out of the house given you rely on the energy & spirit of the living beings in the house. Or maybe you don’t? I don’t know, most of the details of his entity are—like those of every other character—unclear.Having said that I really enjoy stories of poltergeists. The premise is one that has great potential. I truly believe that with proper, steady & diligent editing, this story could make for a wonderful screenplay. I laughed my way through the scenes with the taxidermy squirrels. I could not find anything frightening about a trio of blinded carcasses standing around the room whilst Louise—a fully grown adult human—loomed in fear. In the region in which I live, squirrels are massive. They can become very, very chunky so I appreciate that if a 10+-pound squirrel was threatening me, my heartbeat would pick up but…I’m also a fully grown adult human being, I recognize my options in this situation.This leads me to my next point, Louise is intent on being useless. She never thinks ahead, & never takes a moment to reflect on how her actions will impact those around her. She is very selfish yet, she pretends that everything she does is because she is duty-bound to act. She simply shoots off to Poppy, right before she is meant to go to bed, that her beloved grandparents have died. She degrades Mark because he was drinking before calling her to tell her of their parent’s passing. She thinks that the funeral arrangements are wrong because she never thought to consider that her parents might be unknown to her, far away in her secret-keeping life.I digress, we could go in circles along with the story on these points. Louise is not a character worth following & her bickering is tiresome. Inconsistencies do not a scary story make. Perhaps for some readers, but, I am no such one. I would have appreciated it if Louise had remembered saying that the trash was going to be collected when she dumped Pupkin inside. Yet, we read about her freaking out because she didn’t see his doll body in the garbage, days later, when she looked.I didn’t care that the TV kept being turned on. I would have loved for this to have been the introduction to something eerie & torrential but, instead, I’m met with the comical squeaks of dead squirrels & an old possessed puppet that acted like a dead battery. All that to say, this book was not for me. I was eager to read it—I have heard so much praise for this author & their work. Ultimately, I wanted something more mature, something more pointed. I wanted bat caves of steaming breath without a body. I wanted limp ragtag arms swaying in dead air. I wanted the slightly slow-moving painted eyes of the possessed to glimmer in a sun that the characters would never see shine again.