So, this is no revolutionary work of fiction, but in a world where the standard for werewolf stories in literature revolves around the idea of making them flawless power fantasies that boil down to what's basically superheroes stories in urban fantasy settings, a story that actually portraits lycanthropy as a extremely conflicting state of being that can actually work as a power fantasy still but not without it having a double edge to it really stands out. I’ve been looking for a book like this for a very very long time.And this book doesn’t pull its punches. When it gets nasty, its really fucking nasty.It still works like a power fantasy, as all “turn into a monster” stories should, but it also makes the reader grateful for their normal lives. At no point the reader will envy the protagonist of this book, unless you really really really hate your family and your life and human society overall. In that case go ahead and put yourself in the MC’s shoes. But also please go to therapy, for everyones’ sake.Lets keep it spoiler free.This book is filled with great ideas. Stuff that I’ve been waiting to see in werewolf books for a while. But bizarrely enough it also has what I could only call outdated ideas as well. For once, the point of view in wolf form and human form and treated as different points of view, since they are technically different people, but at the same time they are not. Whether or not the wolf and the human are different entities or just two aspects of the same person is an unanswered enigma in the book and it really makes judging the main character more and more complicated as the story goes on. This, I thought, was extremely creative and well executed.On the less creative side of the scale, this book has vampires and they are weak to crosses and holy water...but not garlic. This took me by surprise. When it comes to vampires in urban fantasy there are usually two ways to approach it, either full supernatural in which case they are weak to all symbols of spirituality and holiness, in this case the effect is determined by the fate of the user or something like that. Or you go full science fiction, in this case, religious symbols and holy water do nothing, cus they are not demons or undead, they are just mutants and usually allergic to garlic, as it's treated as a natural allergic reaction. But this author went the opposite route. The lore in this world is entirely based on judeo-christian superstitions with some vague references to Greek mythology that are quickly dismissed by the narrative. The whole thing just felt extremely unoriginal and narrow minded.Also werewolves in this book are, just like vampires, classified as undead creatures. I know hardcore werewolf fans will have huge issues with this. But it really changes nothing in any way that matters. The story treats it as a matter of semantics.The lore overall is poorly handled. Not the werewolf lore, since one of the sources of conflict is how the MC is speculated to be the last werewolf and there is no one to teach him anything. So in that case being clueless is part of the plot. But every other monster is handled poorly in my opinion. The vampires are poorly handled and lazily executed at best. There are other monsters that showed up in the end out of nowhere after being mentioned once. Demons are also mentioned but it was pretty clear that those are being set up to play a bigger part in the sequel.Another problem is that certain plot points felt neglected. Some characters seemed to get neglected as well. I felt like that author had the talent and creativity to make some great character dynamics and plot points, but he would just abandon them or not give them the attention I felt they deserved. Literary, some of these characters and plot points should have had a bigger word count.I just feel like there is a lot to discuss about this book. For me, if I have to grade it, this book is the most conflicting 3 out of 5 stars ever. It's constantly oscillating in my head between a 2 and a 4 out of 5 stars. Never quit settling on the 3, but I don't feel good saying it's a 2 or a 4 either. And it's definitely not a 1, but certainly not a 5 either.