Kids say creepy things. They regularly have imaginary friends and seem aware of things not readily visible to adults. They wage constant nocturnal warfare at bedtime, battling tooth and nail with nightmares and boogeymen…but what if these invisible monsters somehow became real? What if their once insubstantial, ephemeral grasp on the fabric of reality became corporeal, and they tore their way forth into our side, leaving the veil of separation in tatters? No one would be safe, inside or outside, day or night, awake or asleep.From the author of Birdbox comes a new spine-chilling horror novel written in the POV of a haunted and hunted 8-year-old little girl named Bela. She is a lonely 8-year-old little girl who struggles to make friends and is much too perceptive of the adults around her. Mommy and Daddo appear to have life figured out, but their illusion of a happy family will start to deteriorate, leaving room for evil to slip inside. Bela starts to see the cracks in the foundation of her parents’ marriage, but her parents are too caught up in their own troubled lives to notice how she’s been affected or what’s been visiting her to give the comfort and attention she’s been missing. A demonic presence, known as Other Mommy, has been attracted to the family, and it makes itself comfortable by settling into shadows and dark spaces within the home. Problems between her parents start to gain momentum, creating a veritable feast of negative energy for a demonic entity. Other Mommy makes nightly visits with escalating frequency to befriend Bela and trick her into giving it what it desperately wants: an invitation to be inside her heart. After Bela finally realizes Other Mommy may not really be her friend, she tries to resist the entity on her own, but it only seems to agitate the thing more, making it more aggressive than it was before. She starts to believe she’s the reason her parents aren’t happy and her Other Mommy is acting different, so she begins to consider letting the malevolent creature into her heart by simply acquiescing to a seemingly innocent request: Can I go into your heart, Bela? Afterall, they were friends once, and friends do nice things for each other…Josh Malerman knows how to scare the pants off people! I was absolutely possessed with a desperation to know what happens to this little girl and her troubled family; however, I got the heebs so bad I had to pace my reading, and even that didn’t stop the nightmares from visiting. This horror story mirrors the disturbing tale of Coraline with the presence of Other Mommy preying upon a conflicted and vulnerable young girl who realizes the entity’s true sinister intentions far too late. Coraline’s Other Mommy is believed to be the Beldam, a malicious witch who lures and bewitches neglected children with the end goal of possession and consumption. The Other Mommy in the novel similarly befriends and lulls Bela into a false sense of security and friendship and belonging. This was easily accomplished by preying on her innocence and loneliness. The Other Mommy can be viewed as a supernatural warning for parents who aren’t actively present and invested in their children’s lives; their absence in any capacity can leave a child very vulnerable and may garner the attention of real life evil, going undetected until damage has been done and innocence has been taken. Malerman’s writing is intentionally simplistic, which skillfully conveys a realistic and convincing childlike stream of consciousness. Initially, I was a bit leery about the story being written from a little girl’s POV since I incorrectly thought it would limit how scary the story could really be. If anything, it made the experience more dread inducing and distressing because it limits how much information the reader can get at once, which helps develop a stronger emotional attachment to the little girl by eliciting the same desperation and helplessness she was feeling. I think having restricted doses of information also tremendously intensified the thickening tension, ominous atmosphere, and sinister foreboding within the story. Malerman deftly brushes such vivid and horrifying illustrations into your mind’s eye you will feel like you are watching a horror movie come to life within your own head! Specifically, the way I envisioned Other Mommy manifesting and shifting around the house had my heart beating a lot faster!Incidents around the House is the first book I have read from this author, and I absolutely loved this supernatural thriller, so I will definitely be reading more from Malerman’s collection of scary stories! I highly recommend reading this book but get ready for a good scare! Horror fans will quickly devour this demonic horror story… but even the most imperturbable could be frightened enough to check under the bed, secure the closet door, and sleep with the lights on…Thank you so much to NetGalley and Random House & Ballentine, Del Rey for the ARC and the opportunity to share what I think! All opinions are my own. Publication is June 25th!