Actual rating: 3.5 stars.Such a pathetically low rating. I should be ashamed of myself and stuff.Okay. I can do this. Of course I can. This is the weakest instalment in the series so far and most certainly my leastest favoritest and I would have given it 3 stars if it wasn't for my boyfriend Jimmy Stark and my being slightly full of fish but let's pretend that I never said this and that you didn't read it and that all is well is the world so yay and stuff.Just a little something to distract you from that first paragraph that I didn't write and you didn't read. You are quite welcome.So. Let's be disgustingly honest here. This isn't the best instalment in this most wondrous series so far. I mean, it'smost lusciously gloriouscompared to 98% of thecrapstuff I usually read but it's not thatoverwhelmingly stupendouson theSandman Slim Scale of Delicious Yumminess(SSSoDY™).[Okay, I'm going to have to whisper for the rest of the review (I wouldn't want my boyfriend toretaliatefeel offended and hurt after hearing all thepositivethings I have to say about him) so get your hearing aids out of storage, my Little Barnacles!]The abhorrent truthis that this instalment feels kinda sorta *whispers a bit louder just in case*decaf. Okay, so the world is still asamazing and exquisitely darkas ever, the dialogues are most droll indeed, people die horribly, there isgrit and violenceand blood and gore galoreyay!, ergoall is pretty much hunky dory. BUT. I'm afraid we've now officially enteredBeen There Done That and All that Crap Land(BTDTaAtCL™). It just feels like more of the same. Actually no, it feels like *murmurs inaudibly*less of the sameand this instalmentwas a little, you know, boring and stuffjust doesn't live up to the previous ones. The characters seem to have becomediluted versions of themselves, the arc is progressing at ananemic snail's pace, the plot is frail as asickly shrimp in terminal arthropodic careand there are way too manyrepetitions. It's not that bad, bad, BAAAAAAAAAD, just a bit tooSandman Slim Litefor my impeccable book taste.You can't? Really? That's so sad. There must be a problem with your shrimpy hearing aid or something. No matter, what I just whispered is of no importance whatsoever, so you didn't miss anything. All you need to know is that no matter what happens, Sandman Slim is MINE MINE MINE ← this just in case you'd forgotten.Now about my boyfriendI just sent him on a last-minute homicidal errand in the Mariana's Trench so I could talk freely behind hisappetizingly succulent behindback. Cunning little me is so cunning and stuff. I think I really need to change hisdailydrugsvitaminsor something. I mean, the guy is becoming reasonable! And he manages to bealmost nearly nicesometimesEW EW EW, YUCK YUCK YUCK! He is no longermaniacally slaughterousand delectably irreverent and disrespectful and blunt and sarcastic and offensive24 fishing 7! He occasionallythinksbefore acting, instead of going in allguns and black knife andna'atblazingfor shrimp's sake! Worse, he seems to think myfavorite whiskyis crap! *gasps* Come ON! How apocalyptically loathsome can you get?! This really isoutrageously vile behavior, coming from one of the topsex slavesguests in my harem! It cannot be! It will not do!Jimmy Stark, you have been officially summoned to Fleet Admiral DaShrimp's office. Reformed you shall be. Back to yourfully-functional, formerly stupendous selfyou shall be returned, whether you want to or not!But let's not get alarmedunnecessarily, my Lovely Decapods. My Jimmy Stark isn't yet as worthless asmostsome of you. I mean, he still says stuff like:"Hammering people up just makes them angry. If you want to permanently modify someone's attitude, the thing to do is go full-tilt diabolical."See?Hope springs eternal and stuff.[Oops, Jimmy seems to be back from thatkilling-spreeerrand I sent him on already. Damn he is efficient. I guess that's what fighting monsters in an arena in Hell for 11 years will do to you. Anyway, I better stop whispering otherwise he might think something fishy is going on (he's the weirdly suspicious kind, my boyfriend). Let's see if I can find some nice stuff to say about this *mutters incomprehensibly* slightly not fabulously fabulous instalment.]This book is so full of awesome, you wouldn't believe it! It's filled to the brim/jam-packed/crammed/whatever with it! It's sostuffed with the stuffit's literally exploding!Almost.First of all, my boyfriend now has his very ownWikipedia entry. Now if that isn't utterly cool, I don't know what is. Okay, so someassholesmoderately annoying people keep adding crap to it, butPeople-Guzzling Candy of the Beautifully Serrated Claws(PGCotBSC™) is on it, so I'm not worried. Talking about my girlfriend, it turns out she's a totalLuciferSamael fangirl, which only makes me lurve her more (I have a thing for slightly hysterical groupies, strangely enough).Kasabianis still the most deliciously and obnoxiously aggravating disembodied head ever. Also,I♥tentacles tee shirts. AndTexas Chainsaw Psychobillies. Andbra clasps IQ tests. AndPsycho-fuck pint-sized ninjas. Andfurniture breaking as a bedroom contact sport, always.So all in all, this one was pretty shrimpinggoodand stuff *smilesdeviouslybedazzlingly at her boyfriend who just entered the room in the most fortuitous way* And there is perhaps a slight chance I might probablyread the next instalmentin the series. Possibly.But my Jimmy better get his act together, or else…» And the moral of thisI Would Never Write A Single Negative Word about this Series Don't Be Ridiculous Now and by the Way Go Home You're Obviously Drunk Crappy Non Review(IWNWaSNWatSDBRNabtWGHYODCNR™) is: please Mr Kadrey, don't screw the next one up!I promise to be goodand sacrifice more puny humans and theirexquisitely innocent infantsthan usual and stuff!·Book 1:Sandman Slim★★★★★·Book 2:Kill the Dead★★★★★·Book 3:Aloha from Hell★★★★·Book 3.5:Devil in the Dollhouse★★★★·Book 4:Devil Said Bang★★★★·Book 6:The Getaway God★★★★★·Book 7:Killing Pretty★★★★·Book 8:The Perdition Score★★★★★·Book 9:The Kill Society★★★★★·Book 10:Hollywood Dead★★★★★·Book 11:Ballistic Kiss★★★★·Book 12:King Bullet★★★★★[Pre-review nonsense]I am absolutely NOT disappointedthat my boyfriend's latest adventures lack the insane gloriousness of his early ones. Nope nope nope. Nuh-huh. Not me.Certainly not.➽ FullJimmy Stark You Better Get Reacquainted with your Former Wondrous Self Post Haste Or I Might Move Your DeliciousAssBottom to the Low Security Wing of the Harem Crappy Non Review(JSYBGRwyFWSPHOIMYDABttLSWotHCNR™) to come.