Before getting into the summary, there is one thing I have to address. There is no certain year of this story for one reason, this story is sort of based off the video game, Five Nights at Freddy’s - Security Breach (not exactly). This isn’t some kind of cliffhanger, there is just no actual time period this story takes place in. Because if there is a time period in this story, then the time period of the game would be revealed as well. And the creator of FNAF (Five nights at Freddy’s) doesn’t really give out important information that well. But there has been speculation that it may take place somewhere from 2030-2045. Again, this is no cliffhanger, I just have no information of this story’s, nor the game’s time period.In the first story, our protagonist is a fourth grade girl named Astrid who has a skill for building things. Astrid lives with her dad and her grandpa, who she calls “farfar”. “Farfar” is the Swedish language of the name grandfather. Astrid’s mother left her at a very young age to go across the country to be an idol, which her father did not approve of. The school Astrid goes to has many rich classmates. Astrid was however not rich like the others. Her clothing is all hand-made, old fashioned you can say. Her Farfar isn’t too keen on how the world has changed, seeing how people are spending on expensive future technology like phones and tvs. And this is what makes her the most disliked girl in her school. More like the odd one out. Except for one student named Remy. Remy likes how different she is from the rest of the students. He likes how simple and calm she can be in school, always ignoring the mean comments from the other students. You could also say this boy has a crush on Astrid. But of course, Astrid is oblivious to this fact about Remy.You can see that Astrid is very lonely. She has no friends to hangout with in, or out of school. But there is one thing that could fix this issue. A robot friend called the Buddytronic. The other students, including Remy, have a Buddytronic. A Buddytronic is like a robot doll that you can customize whatever you want it to be, of course, if it has the necessary attachments for it. Each day, the students would show the others how cool their Buddytronic is. Remy however, honestly doesn’t care about his Buddytronic and feels he doesn’t need it. But having a Buddytronic is apparently a way to fit in with the rest of the students. Since Astrid doesn’t have herself a Buddytronic like the rest of the students, they’d make fun of her for how lonely and ugly she is. But one day, that was going to change, but not in the way she imagined it to be.Each day, Astrid would be paid a fair amount of money for doing her chores by her “farfar”. A Buddytronic is exactly $1000 dollars, and Astrid only has about $880 in her piggy bank. It will soon be her birthday, which means there’s a chance she will get some birthday money to reach her $1000 goal. And so she did, but alas, it was not enough. Only having a little more money than she had before. Then she had no other choice but this, asking Farfar if she could get a Buddytronic. She was a little nervous at this point, she didn’t want to seem so desperate to get such an expensive toy considering how much the toy cost. So once she asked Farfar about getting a Buddytronic, Farfar said yes. His reasoning for agreeing with getting such an expensive toy is because of how well behaved and responsible Astrid has become over the years. And how good her grades are in school. So he believed that it was time to finally get Astrid this robot toy that she has been wanting to have for a while. And so Farfar gave her the exact amount of money she needed before, which was $120, to be able to buy a Buddytronic.Now they are on their way to the Mega Pizzaplex, which is where the Buddytronic is for sale. The Mega Pizzaplex is a very popular mall. So knowing that it is a mall, it was sure going to be packed with a bunch of people. The line to buy the Buddytronics was very long. As they were in line, many of the neon lights would constantly turn on and off. Astrid was obviously curious about what the issue might be. Once it was their turn, the machine miraculously had a malfunction. Astrid was very disappointed that she lost her chance to buy a Buddytronic, and is now worried that her Farar won’t want to come back another time. Farfar seeing Astrid close to tears, he decided to convince one of the workers to allow Astrid to make her Buddytronic. After some time, Roberta (the employee) decided to let them make the toy. Astrid has already had a distinct image of how she wanted her Buddytronic to look like. Astrid even already had a name for it, Lexie. She wanted to make her Buddytronic look like her mother from a picture she had in her bedroom. The design she has chosen was blonde hair, blue eyes, a green dress, and lips with red lipstick. Once Astrid was done customizing her Buddytronic, the machine seemed like it was going to work, until the machine started to malfunction again. Once the machine was done, the Buddytronic was released from the machine. The Buddytronic was very disfigured. One arm was longer than the other, one of the dolls eyes were higher than the other, the nose and mouth were too close to each other, and her mouth couldn’t even close properly. The machine even changed her name from Lexie to Nexie. As Nexie has activated, she starts greeting Astrid, and explaining that her name “Astrid” means beautiful. Seeing how horrifying the doll looked, Farar suggested that they throw away the doll, and just get another doll next time once the machine is all taken care of. But as Astrid looks at Nexie, she begins to remember how her mother left her for her own success. So Astrid did the same thing as her mother did, she would be no better than her. And so she decided to keep Nexie, no matter how disgusting she may look.The next day, Astrid brings Nexie with her to school. Warren, a bully in her school, calls out how Nexie is uglier than her. This soon started a huge crowd forming around them. But like Astrid has done before, she ignores these words. And so, Warren takes the doll away from Astrid, taunting her with his height, waving Nexie around. Astrid then kicks Warren to get Nexie back, which then causes her to go to the principal's office. After school, Farfar takes Astrid home. Farfar suggests that she should return Nexie, but Astrid of course refuses. Later, as Astrid and Nexie were in their room, Nexie believed the words the bully Warren said to them earlier that day. Saying that it was true they were ugly, and if Astrid is ugly too, they can be ugly together. But Astrid wasn’t so happy with these words. She’d always be able to ignore people who didn’t know her, but her only friend saying that is when it has crossed the line. Then Nexie explains that if the name Astrid means beautiful, Astrid should be exactly that. Then, Astrid had an idea. Since she is good with making things, there may be a chance she can make Nexie beautiful like she was supposed to be.For the past few days, Astrid has been looking for parts around garbage dumps. But there were some parts that wouldn’t be able to fit on Nexie. So one day, Astrid decides to head to the Mega Pizzaplex to ask Roberta if she can have a certain missing part for Nexie. But since these parts that she requires belong to Fazbear Entertainment, she doesn’t have the authority to take such valuable parts.In this moment of the story, there was something going on with Nexie’s programming. Nexie has started to become more violent and aggressive with Astrid’s bullies. She has tried to push Camilla, one of the bullies, down the stairs. Astrid even gave her a new leg, but then immediately destroyed it. And at another point at school, Nexie bit Warren in the leg. Astrid was now afraid of Nexie, worried that Nexie may hurt more people if she doesn’t fix her. So in the middle of the night, Astrid brings Nexie and breaks into a repair facility to make Nexie an endoskeleton. As Astrid finished putting Nexie on the endoskeleton, Nexie had one thing left to finish her quest. So as Nexie finds a pair of scissors, Astrid is confused and scared of what Nexie was doing.The next morning, Astrid once again goes to school with Nexie. But something was horribly wrong. There were eyes of horror drawn to the two. Even Remy was horrified with the scene. Astrid, walking with Nexie, had no face. Now being worn by Nexie.I honestly feel bad for Astrid. All she wanted was a friend who will be there for her. But has only been a puppet on strings, following her new, "friend". She didn't deserve this at all. She's literally still in her childhood, and now following orders for a DOLL. The fact that she could've returned Nexie since the very beginning, none of this could've happened.