“I hope this house eats you.”“I hope the same about you.”The thing about a haunted house is that, no matter how ghastly the exterior or cacophonous the creaks and shrieks from within, we are still drawn to enter through their foreboding doorway. There are evenpsychological studiesthat show people find the fear of entering a haunted house like the kind operating for the Halloween season to offer a sort of soothing post-experience effect, further drawing us to them. Haunted houses have become an archetype in fiction, often acting as a repository for grief and guilt but also functioning as a psychological mirror reflecting and enlarging the traumas inside the occupants minds. In this way it manipulates and preys upon us all and plays a role that seems just as alive as any character. Though a house is not always empty as such a place has often been twisted and traumatized by those who have perished within, and they may still lurk in the shadows… Such is the case with Cassandra Khaw’sNothing But Blackened Teethwhich, like a haunted house itself daring us to enter inside it’s pages, masterfully manipulates tropes as a sort of meta-commentary by way of chilling story, all brought to life by a gorgeous prose style that feels like it's tearing into the viscera of language and displaying it in all its bloody glory. A rather polarizing book and a quick read, I found this to be an absolute delight functioning on multiple levels that deliver a shocking and scary tale while also examining the intensity of grief, the archetypes of horror fiction and testing the rivets of friendship. It is a novel as gorgeous as it is gruesome.Haunted Houses come in many varieties. In his introduction for the novelBurnt Offerings, horror authorStephen Graham Jonesoffers two distinctions: the Stay Away Houses and the Hungry Houses. ‘ Whereas Stay Away Houses just want to be left alone,’ Jones writes, ‘Hungry Houses aren't complete without people to digest for reasons or decades or centuries.’ The latter category is most often exemplified byShirley Jackson’sHill Houseand here Khaw offers us another example with their own twists. When a group of friends, all former ghost hunters, enter an abandoned Heian-era mansion in Japan so Nadia and Faiz can achieve Nadia’s dream of being married in a haunted house, they are poking the home in the very wound that set it down into legend. Long ago, after hearing her bridegroom had perished before returning for their wedding, a bride had herself buried alive in the walls of her mansion and each year another girl would meet the same fate until the mansion finally fell into disrepair and disuse. Every aspect of the house is dripping dread and portending trauma as Khaw skillfully crafts an atmosphere and tone to the novel that transports you directly into the terror—you swear you can hear your own footsteps reverberating in the prose— and a lexicon of devouring and digestion sinks its teeth into much of the descriptions of the house.‘[The mansion] smelled instead like such old buildings do: green and damp and dark and hungry, hollow as a stomach that'd forgotten what it was like to eat.’This is not just any hungry house, however. InNight Side of the River,Jeanette Wintersonoffers a dichotomy of hauntings where either it is the place that is haunting you or it is the person being haunted from within—Winterson uses Hill House, which Jones’ also classified as a ‘Hungry House’, as an example of the latter where the house magnifies your own internal haunting and brings it externally. Khaw’s house, however, manages to be both as it preys on the mental states and fears of the group while also being a haunted place that, not unlike a Stay Away House, has sent its array ofhitobashiraandyokaiout to torment and steal people away. This plays into an aspect of Asian horror and ghost lore that is different from the Western tradition, which we’ll get into shortly, but it also makes the character’s personalities such an important part of the story.‘After all, isn't that the foremost commandment in the scripture of horror? They who are queer, deviant, tattooed, tongue-pierced or other must always die first.’The characters are whatreallymade this story work for me. It is a group of friends, but one where the tight-knot of friendship has frayed and old resentments are larger in the mind than older, fonder memories—‘Compassion, like everything else, can be worn dull by rough use.’ They get frustrated with their friends and must survive each other just as much as they must survive the mansion. When you inevitably want to yell at one of them, a character will as if on your behalf which is another clever way Khaw makes you feel inside the story with them.Our narrator, Kat, is fresh out of a hospital stay for what they term ‘terminal ennui’ and is still treading waters in a sea of grief (a primary target for Hungry Houses). Kat is close friends with Faiz, a friendship that was ‘guilt-bruised, gestated in the shambles of a stillborn relationship. But a friendship nonetheless.’ and Nadia feels threatened by their past so tensions are high. There is also Phillip, the white White-Knight type character with as much charm and charisma as his bank account that paid for this entire trip. Finally there is Lin, who is doing well on his own and provides excellent comic relief for the reader and frustration for the group as he finds it is ‘easier to run your mouth, run from the Sisyphean work that was being emotionally open.’A quick aside because I LOVE Lin. I’ve always wanted a character in a horror who just cracks jokes and giggles things like “oh we are all gonna die” because that would be me. Taking none of it seriously. Being kind of a dick to everyone, smoking a joint instead of running, being not very helpful. And is the character who knows the rules to horror (a great horror trope) and seems resigned to them. Lin rules.‘Don’t spook the ghosts.’So much of this is an exploration of grief, a grief that awakens the spirits within, a grief the ghosts feed off of. And Kat invites them in not just through grief, but quite literally asking the house to keep her company.‘Even if it was a house with rotting bones and a heart made out of a dead girl's ghost, I'd give it everything it wanted just for scraps. Some unabridged attention, some love.Even if it was from a corpse with blackened teeth.Anything to feel alive again right now.’Because loneliness is terrible. I found the depictions of grief to be quite extraordinary here, not just Faiz in terror at the possible loss of Nadia and showing how someone can completely fall apart, but the way grief is shown all muffled and imagery of being submerged in water is a frequently used technique.‘Have you ever cannonballed into a cold lake? The shock of an old memory is kind of like that; every neuron singing a bright hosanna: here we are. You forgot about us, but we didn’t forget about you.’Kat experiences the haunting most profoundly, seeing all the spirits and hearing the constant chant of their voices. Khaw is exceptional at using language to transfer seamlessly from the “real” to the “supernatural,” with ghosts and fears being tasted just as much as seen.‘I didn’t know someone else’s pain could have a texture, a bite, a gelatinousness you could hold in your teeth, but I could almost gnaw on[Redacted]’sdying.’Something I find particularly interesting inBlackened Teethis the way the supernatural is so much a part of the “real” world, something that draws from the Eastern folklore around ghost where their realm can conjoin with ours and is just a natural thing you hope to avoid upsetting. This is the tradition Kat grew up in, like Khaw who is also from Malaysia, and where the group of friends did their ghost hunting:‘Growing up where we did, back in melting-pot Malaysia, down in the tropics where the mangroves spread dense as myths, you knew to look for ghosts. Superstition was a compass: it steered your attention through thin alleys, led your eyes to crosswalks filthy with makeshift shrines, offerings and appeasements scattered by traffic.’For those who are interested, I found this really cool list ofhaunted places in Malaysiathat would likely be places our group would have checked out. This style of horror, however, is different than the US versions of horror where it is usually an intrusive evil that must be overcome and deafeated—Phillip portrays this trope in his character as someone who must muscle his way to victory—and here the house must be assuaged. Victory isn’t even part of the equation.In this way, I quite enjoyed that Khaw has opted to include multiple languages in the text and leave them untranslated. It works on several levels, particularly if they aren’t words you recognize because it emphasizes that this is foreign to you, that you are the stranger here and not the ghosts. And if it upsets you, there’s a chance Phillip is your avatar in the narrative as he sees everything as an experience he can purchase and own to accommodate and center him (there’s an argument to be made there is a subtle anti-colonialism message in this novella, especially whenPhillip is centered at the end). The language in all of Khaw’s work is something to marvel at and they create a prose that feels more like poetry. The figurative language swirls like smoke and is almost intangible the way it works in a poem and the vocabulary is so well chosen. It feels very ornate in a way that also feels like it is probing a supernatural past, and seem to similarly embody a sense of language that is like the objects in the house that seem to say ‘this was old before the word for such things existed.’ Khaw absolutely dazzles.‘This is the problem with horror movies: Everyone knows what's coming next but actions have momentum, every decision an equal and justified reaction. Just because you know you should, doesn't mean that you can, stop.’Which all brings me to what I loved so much about this novella: it is an examination of horror and the psychology behind it all. If haunted houses are a mirror of our psyche, it is only natural to fall into a sort of trope of your own psychology and each character well represents that. The fear kicks in and the emotions take the controls. All the pieces are set, the roles chosen, the rules to survive the house are pre-established: it’s like a board game fresh out of the box. They even joke about the order they should likely die in. I delighted at the scene where they search for a library to find a book that has answers because, well, that’s justhow it goesin a haunted house. It’s very playful and amusing and the text is full of clever nods to its own self-awareness. It is a horror story playing itself out and we feel like we are rolling the dice along with them.‘My head swam, full of static again, like someone’d tuned the inside of my head to a broadcast decades dead.’I have to say,Nothing But Blackened Teethcompletely charmed me as much as it chilled me. It is sharp as it is smart, especially in Khaw’s excellent examinations of horror dynamics. But above all, this is a really heartfelt novel where underneath the hauntings and violence it digs into ideas of grief and the awkward sadness of a slowly unraveling friend group. All constructed with prose that makes me grin ear to ear (picture creepy horror monster that feeds off poetry grin?) when I read it. A worthy addition to the literary canon of haunted houses, Cassandra Khaw’sNothing But Blackened Teethis a frightfully good time. Let it devour you.5/5