Welcome to the Murakumo Inn -- where the desperate and the frustrated can find an answer to their worries, all for the low low price of ... a secret.I really expected to love this series. I see a lot of people comparing this toxxxHolic, but to me, it was more along the lines of likeNightmare InspectororNightmares for Sale. And I think if it had gone more in either of those directions, I would have liked it a lot more, but instead if sort of went its own way that totally failed to capture me.So,Phantom Tales of the Nightis a largely episodic book, where people with problems come to the inn and the main characters and we see the ways in which their problems are solved, normally in a very monkey's paw style. And yeah, on the surface that does sound like the books mentioned above. But there's a problem of framing here.InNightmare Inspector, for example, the story is framed from the POV of the characters who are trying to help people with their problems. Because we bridge the time between stories with these people, we can get to know them and like them. Even when their actions seem cruel on their surface, wexxxHolic, on the other hand, gives us a different frame. Here we follow Watanuki, a character who we can like and sympathize with, and the wish-granter is more distant. So again, even if her actions seem cruel, we're following and sympathizing with a different character.This book, by contrast, makes the interesting decision of framing the stories mostly from the POV of the people seeking help. So while our three main characters do get slightly characterized through this, very little of it was enough to make me interested in the backgrounds of the characters, and certainly not sympathetic to the main character. I did come away with the book slightly curious about and interested in the spider guy. The other two just kind of come across as assholes, and not interesting enough to me personally that I care why they do what they do or how they got to the state they're in. It's a situation where there are no good guys, but the bad isn't bad enough that I want to see one side or the other destroyed.I can see where that sort of story appeals to some readers, but for me there was just nothing to get me to come back. It's a volume of manga, yet I had trouble getting through the last chapter.I'd give it a 2.5 stars, but I'll round it up to 3 because the art can be really beautiful at times. They got really detailed at some of the best times, and the use of contrast was highly effective sometimes. the flip side of that is that sometimes the art was so detailed that I wasn't actually sure at a glance what I was looking at, and the panel-to-panel action is sometimes a little confused.Like, there's a scene where a person walking down a path stops walking because he sees a monster holding a cage in a field, some 15-20 feet away. We cut to a couple closeups of the monster, but there's no sense that the monster is moving quickly, or even at all. The next panel shows the person trying to run away (and it's a little confusing because the fence behind him makes it look like he's up against the bars of a cage at a glance). Next panel, the monster is grabbing the person's hand. And the panel after that, the monster is trying to force the person into his cage by his head (not the hand he grabbed a panel ago). It's a situation where I can follow the action, but it doesn't flow naturally as I read.But I've learned over the years that stuff like this bothers me a lot more than it bothers a lot of other people. So if you don't think the stuff that bothered me is going to bother you, it's a beautiful book with some interesting ideas.