Even though running from your problems sound like a good way to escape in the world of Five Nights at Freddy's something simple can go very wrong. This finale ends the fan-favorite series of "Fazbear Frights".----------------OVERALL - I personally enjoyed this as a finale book. As a FNaF fan, the epilogue tied the overarching story very nicely though the stories weren't the greatest in the series they were very enjoyable. Some of these stories were very gruesome and disturbing. Overall if you've been a fan of the whole series thus far, you'll really like this book and the new horror it brings to the table.--------------PRANKSTER (7.5/10) - I really liked this story, very cool and gruesome. The story follows Jeremiah who's always the butt of his co-workers' jokes during work. He starts to develop a crush on his co-worker Hope but that doesn't stop the prankster, Parker! I think the only problem with it would be how short it is. Prankster is the shortest story in all these books and has a very abrupt ending that I felt could've been explored more. The characters are all very cool though and fans might recognize some connections with the characters in the franchise VR game "Help Wanted". I felt the antagonist in the story was very creepy and reminded me of some sort of jigsaw puzzle mastermind. There are some very gruesome moments so be cautious. Overall, a very solid story, just wish it was longer.-------------KIDS AT PLAY (9/10) - I really enjoyed this story. While the story doesn't have much to do with Freddy's as a whole its very gruesome and terrifying when you think about it. The story follows Joel, a man in charge of looking after his family garden even though he may not want too. Joel isn't very likable for half of the story but what happens at the end is VERY gruesome and makes you feel bad for him. The antagonist of this story is not something you'd expect since it's not really related to Freddy's, but it's an interesting concept to play around with. I can't stress how gruesome the ending is, the way its described and what Joel goes through is like an out of the world body experience and is truly horrifying, which is good since if it scares me the authors are doing something right! Overall, a solid 9 from me.--------FIND PLAYER TWO! (7/10) - The story itself is decent, but probably my least favorite in this book. For the last story of the series as a whole it's pretty weak and lacking, we do get to spend a good amount of time at Freddy's though which is always nice. The story focuses on Aimee and how she left her friend at Freddy's only for her to go missing. Now years later Aimee wants to solve the mystery of what really happened to her friend and avenge her. The fake out of this book (you'll know once you read) honestly seems like a more interesting story then the actual story. The ending is pretty dark though and is kind of a fitting conclusion for the protagonist, but overall, the story could be better. Aimee is a pretty decent protagonist and makes some good and bad choices which is nice, she's not just perfect. Fazbear monkey appearance too, a big meme in the fandom lol. Overall, the story is decent, but I expected something bigger as the final story of the series.------------EPILOUGE (10/10) - The final epilogue was an amazing experience to read. We once again follow Jake and Larson as they try to put an end to the madness by taking out the main force controlling everything in this series. A very satisfying conclusion with story reveals, great endings, and potential information and twists readers can theorize on. Although it felt a bit rushed this ending was handled beautifully and who knows - maybe it's not truly the end. We'll just need to find out.-------Prankster was a fantastic end to the series and a great story that unfolds for any Five Nights at Freddy's fan. Buy your copy today at a local bookstore OR on e-book!