Thursday Morning: Okay, so I just got started last night on this book. I swore after how bad the first book was and how horribly awful the second book was that I would not read the third. I lied. I picked it up at the library and saw a format change(thank God I never actually paid for any of his books, and by the way, I DO buy most of my books so the authors see the money, which we should all do). I also saw what looked like an apology for the first two books in the author's forward. "This one will be different, you'll see" he wrote, so I guess he has taken the critism and is trying harder now or took some online writing courses. I saw a problem with the author's need to explain the first two books, that was a red flag. The first book was so simple that the 2 days it took me to read it didn't seem like such a waste of time, why explain that? But, the second book went way off track and brought the first book down with it (it didn't have far to fall). But, it was still very simply written and if anyone needed to synopsis to understand that poorly written drivel...well, that would be just sad. And reading the breakdown of the first two books, anyone picking up the third without reading them would chuckle at the explaination and throw it back. I read them and I almost threw it back myself. More to come as I read.Like I said, I have read the first part of the book last night and so far it is dreadfully dull. The change in format is good for him, though. He was not able to pull off the journal style very well and got worse in the second installment. If you want to see what a good written journal type zombie book is like, read the last book I read, "Apocalypse Z" (review upcoming). So I am giving Bourne a chance on this one and I hope it is good enough to finish. My God, I finished his second in this series so I must be a glutton for pain and suffering. But, second, or third chances should always be given. And the genre always needs support, so choke down the first two books and take your punishment for the cause.Saturday Morning: I wanted to update as I went along on this book to see for myself if it got any better. I didn't post after the second night of reading because nothing happened in the book of any importance whatsoever. Sadly, after reading another night, nothing has still happened. The author has indeed gotten better at writing. But, there is no story here, it is just better written. I have a feeling I will finish this book, but it will be like "I have to read one more chapter to see if anything happens". I am sure something will happen, it has to....right? While reading last night and sifting through useless jargon, it hit me what the author should really be writing about. I have read a few military/special ops books that are like 50 pages of technical terms with a page or two of actually meat. My brother (who I got the books from) loves these types of books. They bore me to tears. This is one of those books only with(a few, so far)zombies. Now most zombie genre readers like action. Not just some. Constant action. There have been just a few "slow" zombie books that I have liked. Zone One, for example, was a great book that probably bored other genre readers. But, for the most part, kill kill!!! Bourne's new book is snooze, snore, so far. I know I am really hard on these books, but Goodreads is for honest appraisal and I feel I have to be as honest as I can be. I wish I could write like this guy, albiet bad, because I can't write jack. He beats the living snot out of me there. But, so far with this book there have been a couple of things that has bugged the crap out of me, other than the bad story and useless technical jargon (802.11n wireless was actually a description of the wireless setup in the book. Seriously, and this is just one example, but do we really need to know the 802.11n part of this? Yeah, it is written on the box when I bought the modem and peripherels, but I don't tell everyone I have a 802.11g, 2.4GHz wireless router. Useless information. Like do we really need to know down to the part number and the person's social security number who made it where the freaking assault weapon came from?). The "hero", which is now like a bit player, is a freaking Commander now. A FREAKING COMMANDER!! (yeah, I know this happened in the last book, but I still can't get over this. And it has become even sillier now that I know alot of other people exist and should have been bumped up to that position before him.) The guy who ditched his unit and went AWOL at the beginning of the first book is now being treated like he is a go-to guy with special knowledge over the people that have been responding to this event from the beginning. Both sequels have made HUUUUUUGE jumps in that character's development. Another small thing, but it is so annoying is his new name. Kil. Yeah, it was a sorta-kinda funny part where it came from, but come on. It doesn't make him appear any cooler in text. It just is a sad attempt to give him a badass persona that the people that has followed this all the way has seen right through. Kil. Really? The other thing that bothered me is Jonathan Maberry. You say whaaaaa? I have read a few of his books including Patient Zero and liked them. He left praise for these books on the inside of the cover. How can I trust Maberry again?Tuesday Morning: Okay, I read a little of a short story book I picked up (Revenge). Really good so far, so I missed some time reading DbDA:SH. I read quite a bit last night and have made it past halfway through. Yeah, I know, I am kinda shocked I made it this far. But, once I start a book, I tend to finish it no matter the harm it does me. I have only put down one book that I didn't finish and that was a short story collection of supposedly horror stories a couple of years ago. During the reading on this book, in this period, something finally happened! Well, it was referenced at the end of the last book, so it wasn't a surprize, but it was something. Also, there was actual contact with a zombie. Like a page of action. This book isn't even fitting into the above mentioned 50 pages of useless crap to actual event ratio. It is on a 100 page per event bend. So the military/special ops book readers would LOVE this guy to just write that shhhtuff. I have said this after reading the other times and it is true. The author is a much better writer than he was in previous books. That is obvious. But, the story is still so slow and dull that it doesn't help. He might as well be writing the instructions for constructing an entertainment center. And the book is spread so thin. There are 5 different storylines going on, somewhat connected, and it jumps around alot. That would be awesome if something ever happened in any of the unique settings. There is no character that is worth caring about, even the main guy. No descriptions of actual people but I think I can build a Ham radio or break down an assault weapon now after reading this book. Useless info. I read alot of reviews on here to get other takes on books that I am going to read or have already read and there were alot of great reviews of this book. It is pleasing and puzzling to see that people liked it. When I read that some people liked the action, I just scratch my head. The way I read the reviews, this book has about 2/5 of the book left for something to happen because alot say the ending is rushed. That makes me even more confused at the reviews. If nothing has happened so far, no action worth speaking of, then there must be 10 times more action in the next 100 pages than ever written before by any person in any book. I am doubting this greatly. Sigh. I have left reviews and have graded many books on Goodreads. I almost always leave at least 3 stars or more, if only for effort. I tend to be easier on new authors because they deserve the encouragement for trying to entertain me. I think I could count on one hand the 2 or less star grades I have left for any book. That is another puzzlement for me. Why is this book (and the two previous)so bad for me? I ask myself this as I read and wonder if it is me, am I missing something? Probably. But, honesty is the best policy and all that crap. So, over halfway through I can continue to say that this book is still awful. I will probably read the other book tonight to keep things in balance, but I really, really want to be done with this book. And you know the sad thing? If the author writes more, I will probably pick it up to see if he got any better at story telling. I am an idiot.Thursday Morning: I set my jaw and said I NEEDED to get done with this book. I read almost the entire last half last night. It was chopped up so much with the jumping around that is was easy to get that much read. I faded out after chapter 54, and finished it up in the parking lot of the library so I would know that this book was not going back home with me. I unknowingly stopped last night at the chapter right before the story blew up into a million little pieces and became utterly ridiculous. When people stated that the ending was rushed, they were not BSing. Even before that, with the aircraft carrier, things jumped at an amazing pace. It went from "Hey, I think something is on here" to "Hey, we are totally screwed and it is all over, no action to see here". I was actually surprized when the little group escaped and tied the hatch shut, because there may have been survivors down there. Heck, the one they cried for a little later may have been one of them beating on the door yelling "let me out you mf'ing, self absorbed asshats". As with the aircraft carrier story line, he cut out the action parts and left in the dull back and forth between the different story lines (5). And the story lines? Two of the story lines were needed (well, take that with a grain of salt). I saw no use for two of the story lines at all at all. (the arctic one was only for relaying messages, frozen body fat and getting rescued). And the third (which could have been folded into the other useless story arcs) had the only decent chapter in the book (35) but still didn't have to be in the book at all (the climax with Remote 6 could have been at either one of the two useless storylines). And let me say something about Remote 6. Here is a super secret organization that has controlled almost every event that has ever happened and they couldn't get to a downed plane before a another group could? They were everywhere at all time when it was needed. And naming the top R6 guy god and having him make a "I would have got away with it all if it weren't for you meddling kids" speech was a full on laugh riot. Remote 6 ended up being a bumbling set of fools ran my the villan from the Smurfs. Throughout the book there was so much not happening that the shockingly fast ending was the biggest surprize in the book. And that is not a good thing. The romantic relationship in the book was depressingly dull and totally not important at all. I think that is the desired word for 9/10ths of this book. Unimportant filler. Seriously, this book could have easily been a short story and would have still been dull. Albiet there was never any tension built up for the ending so the reveal of the reason they went into China was flat and unimportant. I never figured out why the hero was in this book at all. He did absolutely nothing. And here is this guy (Kil) that over the trilogy became a freaking technical genius, but didn't figure out for quite a while the reference his neighbor (from the beginning of first book, who somehow by odd chance became the communications guy on another ship) had sent no matter how terribly simple the encrypted messages he was sending him. The only action Kil saw was that he was on the last and most uneventful end story in history. This should have been the most exciting part in the book. Kil's friend (Kil ended up just being a bit of a prick), the Afghani terrorist turned Kil's secret love crush, was useless. Yeah, he shot a few zombies, big deal. He mostly just walked around the ship and took up some page space. And that is what I think this book was, a book full of filler. I can not imagine there was a contract for the author that he had to finish a trilogy, but it damn sure felt like he didn't put any thought into anything but the useless jargon. There was no story worth speaking of. I could describe the book in 3 sentences, one little paragraph. I did so to my wife last night and she just laughed. The shifts in time were staggering. From the above mentioned aircraft carrier to the amazing fast trip to China, it sucked all of the air out of a breathless book that was turning blue within the first few chapters. By the time it died before the ending even started to flash before my eyes, I was already wishing someone would shoot it in the head so another one didn't pop up and eat a few days out of my life.So, I go into review mode of the rant above. Don't read this book. It is that simple. It is terribly boring, dreadfully slow for the first 9.5/10 of the book and mopped up with amazing speed and inefficiency. You won't give a crap about any of the characters. There is no good description of anyone, physically or emotionally. When someone dies, it just doesn't matter. Hell, the ones that lived I still didn't give a shite about. If you liked the first two books, first off I feel bad for you, secondly, this one is way worse than the first two. Nothing is ever a waste of time, mostly, and I did get entertainment out of this and the other two books. I entertained myself by reviewing them as honestly as I possibly could. I am just happy that it is over with and I can move onto something just as interesting. Like reading the phone book or peeling my nails off with a pair of needlenose pliers.