Something is killing the children… and it is some intensely fucked up shit. This gore galore horror fest is so packed with tension and intrigue that you won’t care that it keeps you up at night because you’ll be wanting that time to keep reading anyways. Not for the faint of heart, but certainly for those who love a good scare or an awesome heroine who is eternally over everyone’s shit. The children of Archer’s Peak, Wisconsin are going missing, or being found is mass killings horrifically dismembered, and nobody seems to know what is going on. Or ever care that much. Enter Erica Slaughter, a mysterious woman with insight and a plan. This is the first volume of the ongoing,Eisner Award Winningseries from James Tynion IV and stunningly illustrated by Werther Dell'Edera and alothappens here. It will ultimately leave you with more questions than answers as it sets up the series—and the answers you do get only lead to larger questions and greater terrors—and this is an unsettling thrillride of monsters, murder and fun.I went into this expecting monster horror and that is exactly what I received, and though the aspect of a monster hunter connected to some strange secret (and possibly alien or supernatural?) organizations wasn’t what I anticipated, I am very eager to find out what is going on here. This only teases a larger story with details like Erica’s talking octopus doll and a mysterious person on the phone and it will certainly make you want to rush right out for the next installment. Erica rules too, always looking about with big eyes that are effectively drawn to imply that she has seen some shit. Like really distressing shit and a lot of it. Which…well, she has!By the time this is over, you too will have seen some horrifying shit! Get ready! Be advised that the violence in this is pretty much entirely children, which can be extra distressing. The gore is pretty well done, but everything about this is visually stunning. It plays with some classic tropes in creative ways like vigilante justice attempts gone wrong and snarky (half drunk) coroners saying wow yes that is gruesome and is just full of mystery, surprises and interesting characters I’m excited to follow. By the end it turns into some fun action that is more thrills than chills but is certainly building to something complex and exciting I can’t wait to read more.