DNF at 23%Spoilers ahead!Suicide Forest kept popping up on my recommendations, so I decided to give it a go. It seemed like your standard ghost story - a famously haunted location featuring a group ofdumb fucksfriends hungry for adventure who each fit into a particular horror stereotype (the jock, the virgin, the comedian, the know-it-all, the insignificant one who dies first... etc).The Good: --> the writingThe writing was actually pretty decent and the description of the forest gave me the creeps without the usual case of some authors going "Shit's scary, yo!"The Bad: --> plot holesAre you trying to tell me that these people have lived in Japan for FOUR YEARS and never, I repeat, NEVER heard of suicide forest?"The forest is reportedly the most popular site for suicide in Japan and among the top three most popular sites for suicide in the world."(Wikipedia)It's a very famous place, (even I know of it and I never set foot outside of Europe) so you can probably understand my frustration.The Ugly: --> the charactersI hated how they had no actual personalities and acted in ways that went against human nature. Now, I know this is a book (a work of FICTION), but every horror book would be 100% scarier if the characters made smart decisions yet still got killed.For example, this happened like 5 times:Group: "Hmm... maybe camping out in SUICIDE FOREST isn't such a good idea..."One person: "Yes it is."Group: "Wow! Best idea ever!!!!!!!"********MAJOR FACEPALM*********Here's a couple more reasons why I hated these people.Exhibit A:They have been hiking through the forest for an hour and a half and they were already reduced to half a litre of water after just ONE break with HALF the group. The worst thing about that is that Ethan (the narrator) was confident that that half a litre would last them all through a night of camping AND the walk back. While I'm a self confessed couch potato, even I know that's stupid.Exhibit B:Deep in the forest they find a discarded bag with a book in it called "The Complete Manual of Suicide". Ethan's reaction to this:"Seeing this book was like being slapped in the face with cold, cruel reality".You what? You are in a suicide hot spot which is a forest NAMED AFTER the act, there are signs everywhere urging you not to take your life, every person you came across looked at you suspiciously because they were afraid you were there to hang yourself... Why did it take you this long to understand what people do in that forest?? And why react like that to the least shocking piece of evidence?Exhibit C: (Just so you know, Ethan's brother, Gary, was shot and killed by an 18 year-old heroin addict called Jerome.)Ethan spent pages and pages thinking about the unfortunate events that led some of his classmates to die in a car crash after one of them decided to go Need for Speed on the city while drunk. He also thought about the people who killed themselves in Suicide Forest, why they did it, what could have stopped them.. etc. But not once does he think about how Jerome ended up like that, how an 18 year old got to the point of robbing people at gunpoint to finance his addiction only to shoot an innocent person, get life in prison and be killed by another inmate seven months into his sentence. I think that's pretty tragic, and while I'm not expecting Ethan to erect a shrine in memory of his brother's killer, his hypocritical behavior pissed me off.Exhibit D:So this one isn't really why I hate the characters, but why I hated the book. The portrayal of women was pathetic. Everyone with a vagina was either "hot" or "sexy". Any description of them was pretty much appearance and nothing else, they were simply pretty airheads. Then there was one scene where Ethan saw a woman's discarded bag, and his first (and only) thought about it was "A housewife? A secretary?". *eyeroll*BlehNovember (2017) update: I wrote this review in early 2016 and my English was... erm... less than stellar back then :D.¯\_(ツ)_/¯