**Many thanks to Edelweiss, Gallery/Scout, and Tananarive Due for a DRC of this book! Now available as of 10.31!!**"The horror of class stratification, racism, and prejudice is that some people begin to believe that the security of their families and communities depends on the oppression of others, that for some to have good lives there must be others whose lives are truncated and brutal."- Dorothy AllisonThe Reformatory: the sort of reform school that makes Miss Trunchbull's Crunchem Hall look like an amusement park.The year is 1950, and Gracetown School for Boys is the name of the reform school. Despite its 'angelic' sounding name, it is home to unspeakable brutality and terrifying horror. As is the norm, the school is segregated, and the ugliness of the Jim Crow south is in full force.Robbie and Gloria's father has been forced to stay in Chicago after being accused of raping a white woman, and the two kids are trying to get by on their own in Florida without him and their mother, who has passed away. Robbie is incredibly protective of his sister, so when the son of a white wealthy landowner makes an unwanted pass at her, Robbie doesn't hesitate and clocks the jerk in the jaw. Though he and others implore the judge to spare him, he is sentenced to six months at the Gracetown School.When Robbie arrives, he makes fast friends with two of the other residents of the school, Redbone and Blue, and learns the TRUE punishments: everything from whipping to rape to torture is on the table.The trio try to band together to stay out of the 'Fun House' (where the worst atrocities take place) and Robbie discovers that a special gift he has always had could spare him. He has always been able to sense 'haints' (ghosts) and apparently the Gracetown School is rife with spirits. The warden sees Robbie as his sort of golden goose who can rid the property of the vengeful spirits of boys and others who have lost their lives on this very spot.But can Robbie trust his two pals to help him in his quest...and not leave him hanging? Can Gloria and his other friends on the outside (with the help of lawyers) shorten or end his sentence entirely? Or will the angry ghosts seize this opportunity to addone more soulto their haunted, vengeful ranks?I can't say that I've ever read a book I'd classify both as a verifiable horror book AND an authentic historical fiction before grabbing this one...and my first question after finishing this one was "Why did I wait SO LONG?"This book works effectively and efficiently on BOTH levels, and that in and of itself is quite a feat.At over 500 pages (!) I figured it would probably take me at LEAST a week to get through, but Due kept the narrative moving at just a steady enough pace to keep me invested from beginning to end, with equal parts Gloria and Robbie. I also appreciated that there was no dual timeline to deal with, like a rehashing of Robbie's dad and his mother's past, for example. SO many other historical fiction authors have a tendency to throw in so much extraneous detail, and even during the slightly slower portions of the book, Due never resorted to an exhaustive retelling of the family's past or too much emphasis on side characters that weren't important to the plot.And then there's the horror angle.The haints in this one were spooks through and through...the kind that have you looking over your shoulder and give you that uneasy chill down your spine. Robbie had the perfect amount of interaction with them and there was enough mystery surrounding the entire situation to keep me guessing.And to my twist loving horror/thriller friends---there is one WHOPPER of a twist that had my mouth hanging open for a SOLID minute or so!Not only did I not predict it, but in a book like this I wasn't even expecting to have my mind blown. If you're going to only have one twist, make it count...and DueDEFINITELYdid.This book also manages to weave in truth: the story is based on the Florida’s Arthur G. Dozier School for Boys and the conditions there, and this reality is the most horrific aspect of this book, period.The fact that so many suffered in these circumstances is a brutal reality, and is far more terrifying than any 'haint' could be, in any context.The allegorical subtext shines throughout the novel, but never overtakes the narrative itself.Although the third act of the book started to drag a bit for me when it came to Robbie's potential for escape (and you're going to have to read to find out whether or not he makes it out!), the ending itself was the perfect finale and gives you as a reader what you need to hear about the future of this family, while still leaving room for you to fill in the blanks.The Reformatory is a dark, emotional, scary, powerful and thrilling read...and if you take anything at all from this review?You shouldabsolutelygive Tananarive Due...her due.😉4 starsNominated for Best Horror in the Goodreads Choice Awards!