*Spoiler Free* (For most of the review. Stop reading after I introduce Pizza Kit to avoid spoilers)This is the ninth instalment in the "Fazbear Frights" collection. Just like the previous books, this book features 3 independent stories. "The Puppet Carver", "Jump For Tickets" and "Pizza Kit". Starting with the first story, named "The Puppet Carver". This one was very interesting as it is theorized to be connected to the off-brand animatronics we see in FNAF Pizzeria Simulator. This story has a very terrifying ending and to me, it's a pretty good story overall. "Jump For Tickets" is a really cool story as it follows a kid who gets jealous that kids around him are getting a lot more tickets than he is and he eventually tries to rig one of the games so he can get a lot of tickets. As we've seen from other stories in this collection, you probably know that wont work out too well. Now on to the third story in this book, named "Pizza Kit", which I have a very controversial opinion on. This story, in my opinion, is the best story in this entire collection of books and stories (besides Into The Pit, which is arguably the best story) I know, I know...feel free to tell me how much you disagree with me in the comments. But I'm being serious. Besides Into The Pit, this is my favorite story in the entire collection of books. This book features two main protagonists, Payton and her friend Marley. I recommend you stop reading if you don't want any spoilers as I'm going to summarize the story as well as the ending. Payton is what we would call a typical "rule follower". She likes to follow the rules and tries to avoid getting in trouble. Meanwhile her friend Marley is a typical "rule breaker", she often breaks the rules, goes off on her own and is generally rebellious. She also has a tendency to be somewhat controlling to Payton, much to her mother's dismay. Payton and Marley are in a home economics class and take a field trip to Freddy Fazbear’s Pizza Kit Factory. While on the tour, Marley convinces Payton to separate from the group (something that was ill-advised by the tour guide). The two girls go up on the catwalks above vats of cooking pizza sauce. Payton is quite terrified of heights and is uncomfortable with Marley's escapades. Marley tries to convince Payton that everything is safe by jumping up and down, running and leaning on the catwalk. Unfortunately for Marley, she leans on the bars of the catwalk and falls off, falling into the steam. Payton is terrified that Marley just fell into the vat of boiling pizza sauce. Payton gets off the catwalk and starts to hear strange noises coming from the vat that Marley fell into. Over the course of the story, Payton is reminded of her friend and how she abandoned her to die by not telling anyone about what happened. Near the end of the book, Payton is driven mad by the events of the factory and fears that Marley wants revenge for what Payton did. She gets on the roof of her house to try and escape Marley's vengeful spirit. And then at the end of the book, it's revealed that Marley never died, she never even fell into the vat of sauce. She was just hiding out and exploring the factory. The reason I am in love with this story is because a lot of the other stories in this series have some form of a puppet or haunted/possessed animatronic that ends up being the main antagonist. Which don't get me wrong, that doesn't make those stories bad, quite the opposite actually since you ARE reading a book about FNAF. But this story takes a 180 and instead of having a murderous animatronic be the main theme, they instead opted for characterization. After seeing her friend get "killed" in the factory, she starts to feel guilty for not trying to look for her and not telling anyone about what happened. Her guilt starts to drive her crazy, thinking that her pizza is made of Marley's corpse. After eating her pizza, she even starts to believe that she's eating Marley's corpse. Payton is eventually driven mad and ends up dying because of it, all for the reader to find out that Marley was alive and well and was just hiding out in the factory for a few days. This story was amazing and (in my opinion) carries this book to a 5 star rating.