This book was just terrible for a whole host of reasons.I'll start by saying that while Cutter's first book, The Troop, wasn't a perfect book, it was at least a decent one that left me curious to see what the author would come up with next. Let's just say I'm in no way curious about Cutter's third book. Frankly, you couldn't pay me to read it after slogging through The Deep.Here are my problems with The Deep.1) The CharactersWhat worked about The Troop was that it had characters you cared about. That seems like a pretty crucial aspect of a horror book because if you don't care about the characters, then no matter how horrible the things are that happen to them then, well, it isn't very horrifying IMHO. (Yes, there are exceptions to the rule where you aren't supposed to care about the characters. This isn't one of them.)In The Troop, Cutter managed to get us invested in the fate of the boys trapped on that island. They were kind, smart, scrappy, selfish, brave and even evil in one case. When horrible things happened to them, we cared and felt terrible for them. In that way, The Troop was very Stephen King-like for me.Unfortunately, The Deep barely has characters much less ones I cared about when the horrible things happened to them. In fact, the book only has one character that we ever really get to know -- Luke -- and he isn't terribly interesting or memorable or clever.Luke mostly just yammers on about how awful it is being eight miles under the surface of the ocean, how much pressure he feels, how he feels like he's losing his mind. Oh, and he dreams about this fat, evil mother. She's really, really fat by the way. This fact is pounded into the reader's brain. (He also hears his fat, evil mother in his mind, sort of a fat, evil Greek Chorus. It gets old. Fast.) Luke's defining characteristic is that his five year old son disappeared in a park years ago and Luke has never recovered from that.Then there is Clayton, Luke's older brother, and his defining and really only characteristic is that he's a sociopath who only cares about science. When we see him, it's just so he can be superior to his brother and act smug and provide some plot exposition. Frankly, even as a sociopath he isn't a very interesting one.Finally there is Al, a woman who pilots the submersible that takes down to the Mariana Trench where The Deep is set. Her defining characteristic? Um, well, she's a woman, I guess. We barely see her and she only shows up to move what little plot the book has along. When she meets her end, you barely notice or care.There are also a couple of other scientists involved but we barely see them which leads to more not caring.Finally, there is LB, the dog. Him I at least cared about a little because, well, he's a dog.2) The PlotScientists are at the bottom of the ocean looking for a cure to a disease called the 'Gets (short for Forgets). Don't worry about knowing anymore since the Gets since it doesn't really matter and is never explained. The scientists are looking for a miracle substance called Ambrosia that can cure pretty much anything except boredom for the reader. What is Ambrosia exactly? Where does it come from? Don't ask because you won't find out except some vague allusions toward the end.All you really need to know about the plot is that from the moment Luke sets foot on the Trieste, the undersea lab where his brother is working with other scientists on Ambrosia, he starts to see and hear things. Strange noises, strange sounds, lots of slithering and slick things sliding around the corridors, especially in the dark. But he'll rarely see anything. Yawn.This is going to go on the entire book and will get very tiresome.There is no build up in The Deep. Things are batsh*t nuts from the get go. The problem with this is that I pretty quickly got numbed to the nuttiness and since we learned very little about what caused the nuttiness -- the pressure of the ocean, the PRESSURE! THE PRESSURE -- it isn't interesting.Yes there are plenty of descriptions of gross things, but when you don't care about the characters, the gross things are far less interesting. Writing about gross things is easy. See this book for that. Writing about characters you care about is a lot harder. See Stephen King for those.The book also features tons of flashbacks to a great evil that had been stalking Luke as a boy andthat snatched his son years earlier as part of a plot to lure Luke down to the as yet to be built or conceived of Trieste which would only be built because Ambrosia would be discovered as cure to a yet unknown disease called the Gets. But the villain of the book didn't cause the Gets because their powers aren't THAT great. See the problem with all that convoluted, improbable mess? Oh, and Luke would only be lured down because his super genius brother would be plucked out of all the smart scientists in the world to study Ambrosia. So who masterminded this plot so full of plotholes you could fly a fleet of 777s through them? Here we at least get a, IMHO, boring answer.They are called "Fig Men" and are very old and ancient and have been trapped at the bottom of the ocean for a very long time. How long? Don't ask. Where did they come from? Don't ask. Why are they trapped? Just cuz. Are they extraterrestrial, gods, girl scouts? Don't ask because you won't find out.Instead, Luke merges with the monstrous version of his son given to him by the Fig Men, becomes even more monstrous himself, then goes back up to the surface meaning ... Well, we don't know exactly what it means. Are the Fig Men free now? Not sure because someone else monstrous has already come up from the Trieste. But don't worry because by this point you'll just be relieved this really really bad book is over.The book jacket acknowledges that The Deep borrows from The Abyss and The Shining, and others have noted it all uses elements of The Thing and Aliens. Which is fine, nothing new under the sun, etc, etc. But if you're going to borrow from those classics, you'd think that the result would be at least a little interesting.Sadly, it isn't.