International Women’s Dayis perfect for reviewing this chilling short story, written by a utopian feminist in 1890 - though I reread it and updated my review in August 2022.The StoryJohn’s wife. A baby’s mother. Jennie’s... something (sister-in-law, patient, victim?). A doctor's patient. She is anonymous. She writes furtively, compulsively in the present tense.She is physically and mentally weak from “temporary nervous depression - a slight hysterical tendency”. She is confined to rest in an attic room of a rented house, on the advice of her doctor husband. There are bars on the windows, which she assumes are because the room was a nursery. And such ghastly yellow wallpaper that it becomes an obsession - exacerbating, rather than alleviating her mental instability.But they’re staying in a hyperbolically “beautiful place” with a “delicious garden”. Everyone is kind and caring and lovely. Her doting, suffocating husband. Her sister-in-law running the house. And staff helping care for her.“It is fortunate Mary is so good with the baby.”It’s clear to the reader that the infantalising constraints and prohibition of mental and physical stimuli are as life-sapping as any leaden cage, despite the shiny padlock.She is cast deeper into the pit of helplessness - her husband addresses her as “little girl”. What’s less certain is the motive of her carers. Is she inherently mad, being manipulated, or just overly-indulged?Initially, her phrasing echoes the false cheer that she clearly hears every day.“You know the place is doing you good.” – Does she? Is it?When she chastises herself, you hear the insidious and undermining words of others:“I get unreasonably angry with John sometimes. I'm sure I never used to be so sensitive. I think it is due to this nervous condition.” - “Unreasonably”As she becomes more obsessed with the wallpaper, she starts watching her carers:“I am getting a little afraid of John.”The question is how to recover: compliance, defiance, or psychological escape?Also, how mad is she? Maybe it's caused by her incarceration (and the wallpaper)?Image:“My wallpaper and I are fighting a duel to the death. One or the other of us has to go.” Oscar Wilde’s alleged final words.”(Source)"The Wall-PaperThe descriptions start off comically horrid, but realistic:“One of those sprawling flamboyant patterns committing every artistic sin. It is dull enough to confuse the eye in following, pronounced enough to constantly irritate and provoke study, and when you follow the lame uncertain curves for a little distance they suddenly commit suicide - plunge off at outrageous angles, destroy themselves in unheard of contradictions… a smouldering unclean yellow… There is a recurrent spot where the pattern lolls like a broken neck and two bulbous eyes stare at you upside down.”As the narrator loses her hold on reality, the patterns seem to morph in sinister but enticing ways, with the changing light. It's a form ofpareidolia. I was also reminded of theMagic Eyepictures that were all the rage for a few years in the 1990s, but which I never learned to “see” in 3D.She is increasingly sure there is a woman lurking behind the paper and starts picking, peeling, and removing paper. She can’t free herself, but maybe she can free this alter-ego.The True StoryGilman suffered from melancholia for many years. It seems to have started after the birth of her first child but continued long after. Her husband was an artist, not a doctor. A specialist in nervous diseases prescribed bed rest, then declared there was nothing much wrong with her and told her to “live as domestic a life as far as possible” and “have but two hours’ intellectual life a day… never to touch pen, brush, or pencil again”. Of course, that made things worse, so she ignored it. One of the results was this story. She even sent it to the doctor, but he never acknowledged it.Her eventual death came when, in her own words, she took control and “chose chloroform over cancer”.NowadaysWith autocratic misogynists on the ascendancy around the world, the suppression of women’s autonomy, sometimes clothed in pretended good intentions, is as important an issue as ever. The war for equality is far from won, and in some places, is in retreat.My morphing wallThroughout my childhood, I had a scary thing on the wall. Not wallpaper, but a picture that was something of an optical illusion. It's ostensibly a horse, but in my eyes, I would often see a goblin jockey who was scary in his own right, quite apart from his ability to hide. Most oddly of all, I never asked for it to be taken away, or even told anyone it scared me.Image:The horse and goblin jockey from my roomSee also•	A short and insightful essay,Why I Wrote “The Yellow Wallpaper”,HERE.•	For a slightly different, but equally provoking take on a similar situation, seeThe Victorian Chaise Longue(my reviewHERE), in which an invalid young mother in 1940s/50s is transported (whether for real, or in her delusions) to the mind and body of a woman with a similar condition, but in earlier, even less enlightened times.•	There's a madwoman in an attic inJane Eyre, which I reviewedHERE. Jean Rhys imagined her backstory inWide Sargasso Sea, which I reviewedHERE.•	The compulsion to pick and peel one’s skin is calleddermatillomania or neurotic excoriation. It is usually considered on the OCD spectrum: a repetitive, ritualistic, and tension-reducing form of self-harm. Peeling wall-paper is clearly less harmful, but perhaps the state of mind is similar?Short story clubI reread this as one of the stories inThe Art of the Short Story, by Dana Gioia, from which I'm aiming to read one story a week withThe Short Story Club, starting 2 May 2022.You can read this storyhere.You can join the grouphere.