Wild, wild, wild.........if you like Motley Crue think of their song Wild Side and the extreme pace of that song because that song mirrors this book. Man oh man, what a read. Coming off of the Girl Next Door by Jack Ketchum I would usually take a break from a horror thriller but I am so glad that whatever possessed me led me to The Echo Man by Samantha Holland. It is my first read of hers and she does have other books published under Louisa Scarr and I have not read any of those.The premise here is quite cool. Many of you know how I so dislike true crime stories. I have nothing against those who read them and completely understand the fascination but I just don't want to give such heinous crimes the time of day so to speak. Yet fictionalize their craziness and I am ok with it. I kind of have to be as I basically read so many of them and I term them horror thrillers. If you took offence to my true crime stand please read on, promise its good......So here Holland starts off aggressively and very aggressively with our serial killer decapitating and killing two lovely girls. The writing is great throughout the book and the kills are very graphic and detailed and violent. They are such as the killer here is mimicking serial killers from all over the world. He is basically paying hommage to them and outdoing them as he is a master of all. Quite a cool premise and yes likely done before.The police are stymied of course but I want to say that as a police procedural this book is very very good. This book is just so good on so many levels, what can I say. We meet Jess early on having sex in a toilet with someone she just met. She is quite the screw up and has a condition where she cannot feel pain and if you think about it that is not a good thing.She likes to test herself and cuts herself regularly. Her husband catches her doing just that and a fight naturally ensues with her husband sleeping in a spare room downstairs. That very night her house is set on fire. Jess saves her daughter by jumping out the second floor window with her daughter on top of her - think of the no pain thing here, she shields the fall for her daughter and feels no pain doing it. Fire and police come and Jess is brought to the hospital as no pain does not equate to no injuries. Yet she is the main suspect and police have enough to arrest her.While at the hospital she meets Griffen a police officer who is off the force and he is messed up by our serial killer who raped and killed his wife and beat and pulverized Griffen using a log to inches within his life. Griffen lives with the guilt of not being able to save his wife and is a person destroyed by what happened to him and his wife. Yet while at the hospital Jess overhears him talking to his ex comrades about the fact that he is not sold on Jess being responsible for the fire/murder. Jess ends up escaping the hospital and hooking up with Griffen. She learns what happened to Griffen and learns that he thinks the fire may be related to the same serial killer. Griffen has been following all kinds of murders and whereas the pollce think the murders are unrelated Griffen does not. It is Jess who discovers by looking at Griffens home whiteboard that the serial killer is mimicking all kinds of other serial killers. She is able to deduce it as you guessed it she is quite the true crime fan so that shows you the need for true crime fans, lol.So now the police have their first lead as Griffen's sister Cara Elliott is the detective in charge of the investigation. She starts to see things Griffen's way but is not to enthralled with Griffen harboring a person wanted for murder. As Griffen knows so much about all the killings he is invited back to assist with this investigation and his sister Cara is basically in charge of his behaviour.More and more kills pile up and again they are very graphic and violent. A room is filled with 11 bodies which were all dismembered mimicking the crimes of Ted Bundy - with acid barrel and all. Like our serial killer is bang on in what he does. He is very clean in what he does too in that he leaves no DNA or fibers or anything the police can use and when such things are indeed left it is to set up a patsy so to speak. Think of Jess here.Holland does a great job in feeding you clues though. They are not obvious nor are they impossible. I had an inkling as to who was responsible and yet felt that there had to be more than one person involved. Yet when the end comes Holland herself sets up a patsy as the serial killer and yet you kind of know "hey this isn't our guy" because there are about another 30 pages of book left, lol.The ending was fantastic and actually leaves the door open for all this to continue because after all our serial killer is one messed up dude. Holland shows why he is messed up in dealing with his account of what happened to him in chapters throughout the book that go back in time and are from a perspective relating to him. It is really nicely done and brings in a totally buyable picture as to why the killer is the way he is.The next in Holland series is also based on real crimes and yet has a different detective at the helm with appearances from Cara Elliott. I have already bought it and it sitting in my shelf. I am so glad to have acquainted myself with this author. Just a fantastic author who can really write and is not afraid to pull any punches. Wild, wild, wild read and an easy five star rating which so many of my friends concur with :)