This is one of my favorite horror reads of the year, and so far it’s my favorite novel by the author!Twilight Zone’s intro music is blasting in my mind: nananana! I’m in the middle ground between light and shadow, between science and superstition, and I’m at the dimension of imagination…. Nanana!I cannot sleep! I cannot move! I cannot breathe! When I was younger, so much younger than today, I never needed anybody’s help in any way, but even all ghost members of The Beatles cannot save me! I’m numb, terrified! I’m speechless! I’m about to do something in my pants, but I don’t! I barely hold myself together! Thankfully, I wore diapers before reading something sooooo scary! So I’m giving my 5 gaazzzzzillion ssstaaarss (I cannot even speak or write properly, this book is so horrifying! I wish I had my childhood teddy bear to gather my wits, but I already ripped its head off when I was nine, reading Salem’s Lot! Dammit!)It’s midnight in LA, even my 24/7 partying neighbor is sleeping. My husband is still making the entire Jurassic World’s sound effects by snoring loudly. But I’m alert! Eyes wide open! All the lights in the house are turned on! I’m on the verge of a hysterical breakdown, waiting to see Sun Down Motel’s ghosts banging on the door.Is this smoke I smell right now? Is this a salesman walking toward me? Who keeps knocking on my heavenly house’s doors? Eric Clapton! Nope! Freddy Mercury! Nope! He will rock, not knock! Okay, I can’t stand it anymore, dear lovely occupants of Sun Down Motel. I’m not the night clerk; I’m just a regular reader who loves your stories (I’m not talking about one of your friendly ones named “Casper,” I actually find it overrated!). Simone St. James did an amazing job because I didn’t eat for 8 hours, I didn’t move an inch, and now my legs have turned into jelly that I couldn’t move them, they’re useless right now. And of course, I had limited booze service from my husband (you can imagine drinking on an empty stomach could be the definition of living dangerously!). I didn’t blink and I think my face is also paralyzed! I’m just looking like a survivor after over-botox injections. I didn’t even visit the bathroom, so my bladder is already performing “Under Pressure” as a tribute to Bowie and Mercury.In summary: This book is mind-blowing, horrifying, and so much better than the entire horror movies I’ve watched lately. It’s better than Bad Times at the El Royale (I wish salesman Simon could dance like Chris Hemsworth, but you can’t get what you want all the time!), and as entertaining as Bates Motel (this time night clerks are women and innocent, but we can’t say the same for the deceased occupants of the place whose souls stayed there for their unfinished business!). They’re as creepy, spooky, and disturbing as Overlook occupants.We have an amazing gem, an impressive combination of Vacancy, The Innkeepers, and Poltergeist.In 1982, Viv Delaney, night clerk of Sun Down Motel, vanishes into thin air. They never find her corpse. Nobody knows her whereabouts. Until, in the present time, her niece Carly arrives at the hotel, getting the same job her missing aunt had performed decades ago. After her mom’s sudden death because of the big C, Carly is determined to find out what happened to her aunt. By getting rid of the burden of the past, she feels like she may designate her own path for her future steps.As soon as Carly arrives in Fell and starts her new gig, she’s going to find out she’s living a ten times worse experience than the Paranormal Activity movie sequels and she knows who she’s gonna call (of course, Ghostbusters!) but there is bad reception at the hotel.The story is narrated by two people and in two timelines. We move back and forth between 1982 and today. We have Viv and her niece Carly as narrators. They’re so interestingly similar to each other; only their zones are different, but both of them are brave, smart, risk-takers, loners, introverted, happy with their own terms and small things kind of ladies. (I thought many times that Carly could be the daughter of Viv. Their instincts and approaches to events, their actions, are so similar.)Carly is determined to find the secrets about the hotel and what happened to her aunt, which puts her life in danger because she literally has to deal with the supernatural entities who could help her uncover the truth!!!!There are so many amazing characters, such as Helen (I visualized her as Billie Lourd; only Carrie Fisher’s talented daughter could handle this creepy, weird but also lovable character). And of course, nobody knows what it’s like to be the sad man behind blue eyes. Nick is also a memorable character, hiding from his traumatic past, a great partner in crime to help Carly solve the puzzle.I had a great, terrifying time and I truly enjoyed every second of reading this book.Special thanks to NetGalley and Berkley Publishing Group for sharing this best ARC COPY and giving me an early Christmas gift in exchange for my honest review. And honestly guys, PLEASE READ IT, READ IT, READ IT!And special thanks to Simone St. James for creating this amazing, memorable, stunning, mind-blowing masterpiece!