🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟"London, Vermont: the ideal place for those monster hunters you see on TV to go and take a good look around..."Jennifer McMahon is officialy a new favorite author; I read three books: all of them five stars! She's very skilled at writing what seem to be typical murder/crime thrillers and turn them into horror-like stories with "very real" supernatural twists. Of course, you need to suspend disbelief and go along for the ride. She's obsessed with: Vermont and multiple timelines. This time we follow three different timelines, so you'd better pay attention while reading or put some tags or write notes. Present timeline (2013): the story starts with Amy, who lives with her family at her grandparents' old Tower Motel that's been closed since the early 70's. One night, Amy goes nuts, shoots her husband and her son and then kills herself. Her young daughter, Lou, survives the masacre. Police officer Jason, one of the first to get to the crime scene finds Lou, and also finds an old photo of Amy's mom and aunt with a writing on it: "29 rooms". Jason tells his wife, Margot, all this and Margo inmediately calls her sister, Piper, who lives in California. Margot sounds very upset so Piper takes the first flight to London, Vermont. Margot is pretty sure the message Amy left on the photo is for her and her sister connected with some dark secret the girls shared back in 1989. First past timeline (1955-1961): it follows Amy's mom, Rose and her older sister Sylvie, who also live in the same Tower motel that is open in this timeline. Sylvie dreams of going to Hollywood to become the star in Alfred Hitchcock's movies and keeps writing and sending him letters to Paramount studios without reply. Rose and Sylvie's father built the Tower Motel with a replica of the Tower of London in honor of his British wife, Charlotte, whom he met while in London, England during WWII. When Charlotte's mother comes to visit, she fills Rose's head with stories about shape-shifters and monsters. Rose starts imagining things and having nightmares, so Charlotte kicks her mother out of their lives forever. Rose keeps telling her mom that Sylvie disappears during the night but no one believes her. In 1961, shortly after turning 18, Sylvie runs away from home and never comes back. Rose feels guilty, she turns into a drunk and her daughter, Amy, is raised by her grandma Charlotte. Second past timeline (1989): we follow Amy, Piper, Margot and Jason when they were children during the summer of '89. This is where most secrets and twists are revealed: what is the 29th room that supposedly does not exit? what happened to Sylvie? and Rose? and Uncle Fenton? These girls start digging and find some dark shit. Read it and find out. It's super fast paced, I read almost all of it in one day. I would not say it is scary, but it's got a few eerie scenes. Jennifer McMahon books should be adapted into movies. If only she were as popular as Mr. King.