I love ghost stories. And haunted house stories. And stories set in old gothic houses. This is all three. And it's wonderfully done.The Fate of Mercy Alban is a story about family secrets, set in a beautiful old mansion on Lake Superior. Well, beautiful and creepy. You see, the house is full of secret passages, little peepholes, tunnels to the beach, entire hidden rooms, and lots and lots and lots of secrets.When Grace Alban's mother dies, in the old family manse, she heads home with her daughter Amity to settle up affairs and get things in order. She relocated herself to the west coast years ago, so hasn't spent much time since she's become an adult in the old house, with it's aging team of servants and host of tragedies hanging over it. You see her two younger brothers died in the lake. So did her father. And before she was born, there were other deaths, too.While going through her mother's things, Grace discovers a box of letters from her mother's first love - a young man who committed suicide at the house in 1956, the same year her great-aunt disappeared from a party there, never to be seen again. One of the letters mentions a manuscript, and Grace hunts that down as well. That's when things start to get really interesting.This book contains a book within a book - and it's so well done here that you can hear the difference in "voice" from one "author" to the next. I sometimes get annoyed with book-within-a-book stuff, but this was really fun, discovering the past with Grace, through the manuscript written by the young man who was visiting the family back in that fateful year of 1956, and what he encountered in the house. Not the least of which was creepy women in white dancing in witch circles on the beach outside his window.Grace begins to uncover family secrets, long hidden, known only now to the dead - and maybe to the faithful and discreet servants of the house. Her searching turns up more than she ever bargained for - between a reporter hounding her for family tales to write a book with, questions surrounding her mother's death, her daughter's safety being at stake after break-in's at the house, and the turning up of a creepy, creepy old lady relative, Grace has her hands full.This book has great pacing, kept me right on the edge, staying up far too late a few nights in a row to keep reading. It's very hard to put down. The characters are fascinating, relatable and engaging, and you see a good amount of character development through the novel. The setting couldn't be more wonderful, and I kept flying off into imagination trying to see all of the rooms and porches and corridors in my head. I really loved this book and will be looking for more by the same author. I highly recommend it to anyone who likes creepy (but not gory or gross) gothic stories. Just don't read it alone in the dark.