It’s a wretched thing, this book. Sharp as shattered glass and filled with teeth. And something else too, something that slides into your neck like a talon, demanding your attention, holding you in place. Something utterly, utterlycaptivating.**This is a story about monsters, and all monsters must have names because “things with names survived.” So in a way, this is also a story about survivors.Before Johann became a thing with a name, he’d survived. Johann crawled out of Elendhaven’s flowing womb—its harbor—and slipped among the town’s people like a snake, quick and quiet as a shadow after dark. And so he had to have a name. Johann tried on the sleeves and slacks of a few—“Johann the Demon, Devil Johann, Johann in Black, Oil-Dark Johann”—but Monster Johann fit best. “The first half was a kiss, the second a hiss.” No one in Elendhaven knew Johann’s name, and if they knew it, it quickly slipped away like mercury from probing fingers the moment their minds closed around it. This is the price of survival: Johann must stalk the streets of Elendhaven, untouchable and inevitable in his destruction—but also, unknowable.One day, however, Johann sees a man nursing a drink alone in a cheap bar, clothed in a coat limned with gold and looking “rather as if he wanted to be robbed”. With “glass-pale eyes” and “a blazing beacon of straw-yellow hair”, the man looked like something that sprung from the dreamy-soft imagination of a painter. He looked delicate—not breakable, there’s a difference—like a fine blade. And there was the whiff of the unknowable about him too, something filled with teeth and power. Something beautiful enough to kill. And Johann was like a moth before a candle.Johann did what any sensible monster would do: he stalked the mysterious man for three weeks, long enough to learn his name was Herr Florian Leickenbloom. Long enough to learn the secrets Florian hoarded like a miser his chains of gold coins. Long enough to know what Johann had suspected all along: that Florian was another thing with a name. Another monster—just like him. And if he were lucky—maybe worse.“You’re awful,” Florian hissed out between chuckles. “You’re a vile creature.”“Herr Leickenbloom, please.” Johann smiled easily. “Don’t underestimate me. I’m more than vile; I’m an honest-to-god monster.”I am in love with this book, if such a thing is possible. I’m in love with the way the author tenderly renders her world and characters, a tenderness both touching and terrifying. How the sentences are exquisite, and how the most hideous acts of depravity and violence are sketched with such poetic, visceral power, giving the darkness lying at the heart of the story a wilder texture and an even deeper view. One doesn’t so much read this book assinkinto the rain-soaked, shadow-steeped, fog-shrouded atmosphere that saturates the novella. I was entranced, and for the space of just a little more than a hundred pages, my mind was wound so tightly around this story it felt like there wasn’t enough of me to be in the real world.Ultimately, though, it’s Florian and Johann’s dynamics that made this book such a rewarding, unforgettable experience.What Florian and Johann are to each other requires a word harder than “love,” a word with claws and fangs. A longing. An obsession. A craving. Don’t get me wrong, they are fucked-up. Like, straight-up fucked-up. But I think the model of these pairings in fiction is so fascinating because—despite how monstrous the characters are, despite how questionable their dynamics can get, and despite the moral unease that will lap at your conscience like dark waves—sometimes they strike the deepest chord within.I mean… have you never made a broken, unspoken plea in your mind for someone who would look into the crevices of your soul—into your woundedness, your wretchedness—and see something infinitely precious and worthwhile? Did you never wrestle with the dreadful longing to be known, to be seen, and then, to be accepted, and to be loved? Deep down, don't you yearn for someone to see you, really see you, and know that you cancut?The Monster of Elendhavenis a story about monsters, yes, but it’s also a story about two monsters seeking to know each other, to map the awful ruins of each other's hearts, even if they might bleed from it, even if they might never survive it.And when our work is done, I will carry him to the bottom of the sea, where we both belong. Deep beneath the silt our bones will turn to salt.My only real quibble with the book is that it comes to a relatively abrupt end, a missed-stair kind of lurch, and I stepped out of the book itching a little over the sense of unfinished narrative space. Eleanor’s storyline also feels a bit thin—she’s the monster huntress going after Florian, and she was so intriguing to me, but her character gasps for more oxygen on the page, and the novel seems to tie up the strands of her life a little too quickly, a little too late. At the end of the page, however, none of it mattered, because I was already looking forward to sinking into this book's simultaneously spine-chilling and soothing embrace once again.You can check out my reading progress thread on twitter:here!.