This book release proves it:Scott Cawthon is a multi-medium genius!If you have any inkling of what kind of human being Scott is, then you should know that he is brilliant when it comes to storytelling. However, there is a difference in method when it comes to showing a story through a video game and showing one from a book.Scott can do both with profound talent.Keep in mind that Kira Breed-Wrisley co-wrote this book with Scott. He explained on the Steam forums that she is a professional writer and he sought out her help, but other than that there’s not much known about her. So, not knowing how much she influenced or helped with this book, I’ll be referring to Scott and Kira in the plural sense.Writing StyleThere are so many things that pleasantly surprised me about this book, but I will lay out some key points. To start, Scott and Kira display a scene or moment through describing the characters’ feelings instead of going down the usual descriptive word route. Yes, there are descriptive scenes (how can there not be, it’s a book for crying out loud), but they don’t overwhelm the moment or distract from the characters’ emotions. Instead they put those at the front of the train and take their time to delicately continue the writing procedure.They also use emotions, such as panic, nostalgia, and sorrow, to paint different scenes with a cinematic flourish. I’ve said this before about few authors--on how they can describe a scene in a way that instantaneously places an image or movement with a specific point of view in my head as if I am seeing it on-screen like a movie. I don’t know if anyone else has ever done this before or if it’s just my passion for film talking. Trigger phrases likeThey were surroundedandAll I could hear were my screamsreally place a shot in my head and a sense of dropping in my stomach. The authors did that many times here to my greatest joy.Fear FactorAnother thing was how the element of fear and horror were projected to make the reader (me) afraid. When the first sense that something was about to go wrong came up, I suddenly remembered what book I was reading and for what franchise. The games’ scare factors depend heavily on jump scares: The fact that something you weren’t expecting happens spontaneously to give you a start and maybe a scream or two. That happens only once in this book and it is more or less as effective.The majority of this book’s fear factor dwells on the method of suspense: Expectingsomething to happen depending on your imagination through stretching out time and fearing the unknown through tension when the first essence of something wrong appears. The suspense and tension is handled so damn well here! Small things like thinking someone is around the corner and then slowly seeing them lean out of the darkness as you realize you have nowhere to run.Other paranormal incidents like visions gradually accelerating before finally being soaked in blood and horrific flashbacks from a little girl’s point of view that completely sympathize with what it is like to be a child and how a child witnesses more than one tragedy. I found myself shying away from the pages--becoming legitimately scared. To put it into quick perspective, this book has less of a “trapdoor spider” effect that leaps out at you and more of a “there’s a black widow spider inching down from the ceiling toward my face while I’m lying in my bed frozen with fear” effect.CharactersIf you’re going into this book expecting Freddy and the gang from the top--don’t, because it’s not about them.This is a book about a teenager named Charlie who is still traumatized from losing her father and a friend when she was a child and how returning to the town where all of it happened brings on worse things that she can’t imagine. This is such a blessing. Scott and Kira concentrate this entire book on Charlie and her emotions and actually make you care about her and get attached to her as a character. The first time we get a taste of the animatronics with their essence from the games is quite a ways in, but is done with perfect timing. Just a warning though if you’re expecting an experience from the games, because this isn’t a game it’s a book...made of paper...and it has its own way of dealing with characters.All I have to say about the other characters is that they were pretty believable through most of the book. There were a couple times when these teenagers felt a little like they were “acting” the moment instead of being the moment, but every time I found myself feeling that way I would step back and imagine how teenagers really act and it was more or less realistic. No horror movie cliches involving teenagers that I could tell either.Holy crap, dat villain!!!! He was SO FREAKING sinister!!I couldn’t believe it when they actually brought in SPRINGTRAP! I had no idea he was going be a part of this story--I didn’t even think we were going to see the villain at all since we don’t necessarily see him in the games, but it turns out he was ahugepart of the plot. Also, damn it, he was the freakiest villain concerned with real life crimes that I have ever read! There’s a particular scene in the climax where the cast of teenagers are trying to interrogate himbut he can’t talkwithout the Springtrap head on!! Once they put it on his voice changes and the most disturbing explanation for his murderous actions plays out and you HATE him all the more.Timeline ChangesHopefully all the fans have come to accept this by now, but this book is not canon to the timeline of the games. It is a brand new take on the series and lore and I think that is all for the better. The games are the games--they have their own story and own explanations with their own versions of the characters.The Silver Eyesis its own version of the characters. This is all fine by me since Scott himself answered Game Theory’s speculation about the lore saying that there are many timelines and only one backstory. Cool with me because this book was awesome! That being said, the fact that it was a different timeline made me clueless to what was around each corner of the story--especially the end.In the third game it’s revealed how the murderer is killed with the spring rigged yellow Bonnie costume after jumping in it to flee from the ghosts of the children he killed long ago. In this book, Charlie, the main character, has prior knowledge to the animatronics as well as the spring locks. He grabs her right as they are all about to leave, threatening to snap her neck. Before he can, she reaches up and triggers one of the locks on his neck creating a domino effect on all his joints and body. It is truly a fitting death for such a twisted individual.There were some things that I was confused with. Loose ends with no explanation, but I feel like this isn’t the end of this timeline. Five Nights at Freddy’s is possibly a series title with The Silver Eyes being this book’s title. I hope he’s got a whole series lined up because I’d LOVE to see them on my shelf.TruthCan I just rant a little bit? Please?It has nothing to do with Scott or the story or characters. It has to do with the fans. Soon after Five Nights at Freddy’s 3 came out, I was surprised (though I shouldn’t have been) that a lot of fans were sympathizing with the Purple Guyafter he became Springtrap. There was the usual shipping him with other characters and themselves, which was to be expected, but I was shocked that a lot of people were saying things like, “Poor Purple Guy...he’s so lonely...I would be there for him....he deserves better.” WHAT?! You have got to be sh*tting me!! This is achild predatorwe’re talking about! A demented f*** who was possibly molested as a kid himself and allowed those demons to fester and grow in his brain until he could find pleasure in seeing the blood of innocents on his hands.It has been something that’s bothered me since discovering this type of fan, frustrated that those people don’t get that horrible crimes and criminals such as the Freddy’s killer really do exist in their own neighborhood. Luckily for me, this book brings light to that. Due to the lack of horror and animatronics in the first act I was beginning to wonder where the book was going by the time I reached chapter 3 or 4. But I stuck with it and was so glad I did, because by the time I got to those chapters the very core of Five Nights at Freddy’s and it’s importance surfaced with a crystal clear light. Charlie and her friends go to a memorial ceremony for the friend they lost and thewholechapter is the reader witnessing this ceremony. It’s mostly people giving small speeches about Michael, the boy they knew who was kidnapped and murdered as a child, and I began to wonder what this was all about. We see his parents barely able to get through the ceremony from stark grief these ten years later and afterwards everyone is leaving sympathy cards and looking at Michael’s things. Charlie finds a picture and suddenly remembers playing with Michael when she was 6 years old. Other memories surface and she becomes instantly furious at realizing that a promising future was stolen from him before he even knew it.There’s more to this scene when it comes to describing it, but you’ll have to read it yourself. What’s important here is the point of that whole chapter. It conveys what it means to lose the life of a child. Although sometimes annoying, children are precious because they have innocence in their hearts, minds and spirits. They are told to be careful, but they don’t really understand why until something dangerous or painful actually happens to them. Five Nights at Freddy’s is not the kind of fandom that deserves slash fiction or people rooting for the villain! It’s meant to be taken seriously because child predators really do exist out there in the real world and finding joy in a game that weighs that as its subject is not something to laugh about. When a child dies it’s not fun or awesome! It’s evil because a piece of innocence that doesn’t know any better has been slandered and defaced before finally being stolen before its time. This message was conveyed so strongly in that chapter of the book and throughout the rest of the story that ithasto be taken seriously. This is what Five Nights at Freddy’s is truly about. It’s not just a game, it’s a PSA.ConclusionThere are situations when we discover who a game developer or film director is by playing the game of viewing the movie, and then there are situations when we discover who the author is by interpreting the different layers of a book. Very rarely can we determine the abilities of one person through all of those mediums but with this situation we are blessed to experience just that. Once it was clear how meticulously Scott Cawthon had set up a backstory in the Five Nights at Freddy’s gameswithout saying one wordit was safe to determine that he had some kind of passion for the characters and their story. But when I heard he was the head writer forThe Silver EyesI was hesitant in my confidence for him because I didn’t know what kind of writer he was. I am SOOOO pleased to be thrown to the curb for my doubt because Scott shaped a completely well-told story without cliches or tropes and delivered an experience of horror and attachment without using what he was known for as a crutch.That being said, I am completely confident that the upcoming film with be equally as satisfying and creative if not more simply because I know the fact that Scott is overseeing the process. I cannot wait for another book to come out whether it’s a direct sequel or not--I just want it now. Scott Cawthon has my full trust and I back him 100% from here on out.