⭐︎3.25 stars rounded down!⭐︎Hm, I wanted to love this, I really did.And overall, I liked it quite a bit. IlovedEmil, who was just a guy who was a victim of circumstance (and not getting a choice at all in the way his life went, THANKS grandma😠) and was different and so looked at as bad and wrong and a freaking satanist to boot.But really he was just a gay man who liked tattoos and metal music and long hair and so looked down upon, and isolated for it. His whole life he's had some pretty shitty luck, and thus can barely get by and thus can't get out of the shit hole town he grew up in, where the townsfolk treat him like dirt.He was the best part of this book. Really, he gets put through so much shit, and yet he's still kind and sweet and a better person than any of the other villagers will be.Now, I didn't love Adam, but overall I did like him. I understood his POV and his troubles and why it was so hard for him to let go of the prejudice and homophobic world he grew up in, that told him repeatedly that liking men was a sin, sin,sin.I understood his push and pull. But what I didn't like was near the end, and the quick AF turn he took to believing the worst of Emil and not trusting him when he's done nothing to suggest he wasn't what he appeared to be. And then he went on believing several other people who have shown to be pretty shitty people themselves, but oh yeah sure, what they say conveniently lines up with Adam's worries and he latches onto them, and then is a total shit head to Emil.I guess the only reason I forgived him is the same reason Emil did, which is what he did for him at the end of the story. How hesacrificed himself instead of letting it be Emil, so that Emil could live. Giving up part of his life like that - and having to be part god and turn into what the god looked like at night - was a big sacrifice and proved his love for Emil.So yeah, Adam really frustrated me at that point, but he made up for it.Their romance overall was good. This wasn't as steamy as I was hoping, although what we did get was good enough. Althoughthat weird turn this took near the end where Adam is in the god form and they have sex, while he's all harry and has hooves and a snout of a wolf, but also kinda looking like a goat....idk, that was just a little much for me. It shouldn't be, as I've read human/monster stories....but I guess if overall they don't look humanoid, especially in the face, it's just a little weird for me lolAnyway, all those things above were overall good, even with Adam's ups and downs and taking so long to give in and such....But my main problems were, well, the big one being howslowthis was.I think it didn't help that for a lot of this, not much actually happens. Not in the paranormal part of this, anyway. There might have been a part here or there, little bitty parts of it, and there is one big part before it slows down again, but overall there wasn't...much of the paranormal aspect until the last part of this.It made this so slow. As evidenced by it taking me about 5 days just to get the 75%ish down, and then I was able to finish about the last 20-25% last night, because then shit starts happening.I also wanted more of their "illicit affair" as it were. I wanted them to give in and be doing it all over the place. But instead after the first time wherewhere Adam's kinda possessed/kinda not by the demon/god thingy, so they have full on sex, but then Adam pulls back and then when he gives in again, they aren't having full on sex, just masturbating together, really.Also they were supposed to be trying to figure out what was going on in the town and with what happened to Adam and all that, but aside from a first look in Emil's attic, they don't really do any research/trying to find out what's going on after that. I thought it was gonna be this big plot point and then it kinda...wasn't.Or if it was, we didn't get to see it, because two times, about two months of time is skipped in this book. Just big chunks where it's like "it's not August and they've been doing so and so for 2 months" and then some action happened and then it was all the sudden two more months later, and the main thing Adam and Emil were doing was working on a project so Emil could sell what he makes and make money.All the things weren't explained until the very end. We didn't get like increments of knowledge as the story progressed, we just kinda got crumbs until at the end when we get the whole pie. I think the information should have been revealed at several parts to start giving us a picture of what was going on until the big reveal - especially when these two were supposed to be researching what was going on.Also while I am happy these two got their HEA in a way, I had two small questions at the end, which wereAdam's dad comes to visit for a week, and for the first night it's some special night where Adam gets to stay in his human form at night as well, but then...what about the rest of the week his dad is there? Adam doesn't want his dad to find out about the god thing, but then how is he gonna hide what he turns into at night the rest of the days? Is his dad just staying somewhere else or....???Also, do all the townspeople know about Adam? It wasn't quite clear if they all did or not. They know of Adam and Emil's relationship, sure, but did they know about Adam sharing his being with a god like...thing? I don't know🤷‍♀️.So overall, there were positives to this book, and I did like parts of it, and I loved Emil and liked Adam, and I did enjoy their romance overall, but it was just too slow and was a slog to get through at times. I wanted more to happen before the last chunk of the book.So overall, not the best I've read by these two ladies, but still likable overall. I'd say it's up to you whether you read this or not. There's the good of this story, but also the "meh" or bad of it, so it's really up to you.Onto the next!