Joint winner of the Shirley Jackson Award for NovelsThe morning after I go to Rachel’s house, I feel full of her. I had only drank the tiniest bit of her milk but the shock of the sweetness is still reverberating as I rise to go to the bed-thing.Where I End by Sophie White is likely to be one of the last books I read in 2022, and is certainly the most viscerally powerful and disturbing.The novel is published by the wonderful small indy Tramp Press, who have labelled this, her fourth novel, as White's 'literary fiction debut', not without a little controversy (see below from anIrish Times interview).The novel is narrated by Aoileann, a young girl approaching the age of 20. Her account opens:My mother. At night, my mother creaks. The house creaks along with her. Through our thin shared wall, I can hear the makings of my mother gurgle through her body, just like the water in the walls of the house. I hate the sound. In the daytime, it is covered, wrapped up in the radio and the wind and the low hum of the electricity. But at night, in the silence, her insides gush and she seems alive in a way that, during daylight, she does not. The gush forces thoughts of her effluent, her needs; of the things my grandmother takes care of but that I will have to do someday soon. I don’t want to, which makes me feel bad. I hate her body–it’s an awful thing.Aoileann lives on a small island (One hundred and thirty-four fleshy hearts beat inside fleshy bodies inside toppling stone dwellings) off the coast of the Irish mainland. or Mórthír in the local Irish dialect. This is a grim barren place, whose geography but not character, White has modelled on the real island of Inis Meáin. At one point we learn that the ground was so hard and the soil so thin that burial was impossible, so instead bodies were hung off the high cliffs at the far end of the island to be picked away by the elements:The tentative priest comes from the mainland once a month to do little more than rearrange his collapsed chairs. The islanders are tolerant of him, but both sides know his visits are for box-ticking alone. The bishop dispatches him to sell their stories, but the islanders know the sea is God. They know that religion is a pathetic performance, a plea for clemency by lost people. The sea laughs at such pleading.The house in which Aoileann is at the furthest, least accessible, part of the island and its windows have been boarded up with stones. Aoileann lives with her paternal grandmother, an islander, who she calls Móraí, and her mother, originally from the mainland. But no-one on the island knows that her mother is there, believing her to have died around the time Aoileann was born, and she is bed-bound and dumb, seemingly in some form of permanent post-natal depression, and is treated by Aoileann and Móraí as little more than an animal, or perhaps, even worse an object.Indeed Aoileann typically refers to her as 'the bed-thing' rather than as her mother, and her story sets out in stomach-turning mechanical detail the procedures she and her grandmother go through to keep the 'bed-thing' alive:I check the position of the thing above the fetid mouth of the loo and then lower it. The toilet receives her like a rancid cradle. Her head and neck meet the cistern first, coming to rest on the damp sod of a pillow we keep there. I continue to lower, the neck remains snapped open, her head hinged back so far she is gazing at the wall behind her. I guide her torso until her body comes to a seated position. I loosen the leg belt and bring it lower so I can pull her knees wide. I wish we could just have her shit in the bath but it is too risky for infections. I hitch the rope back on the cleat so that I can rest for a minute. It’s hard work. For something that looks so decrepit there’s a density to her. There’s a weight to death and even though she is alive, the death is undoubtedly advancing. Just look at her. She is death-logged. Urine falls out of her but nothing more. I give it a few minutes and then, I close my hands around its waist to knead its innards and this works.Meanwhile Aoileann's father lives on the mainland and visits once a month and while he is aware of his wife's condition Aoileann and her grandmother put on a show that they take better care of her:Dada is softer than we are. He loves the thing somehow. His memories sustain the love and the thing he sees once a month is tidied up by us, neatened for his consumption. Without it in his eyeline constantly, it is easier for him to recast this thing as a tragic ailing wife and mother. He doesn’t have to look at it every day. It doesn’t hover nearby at all times, ruining his life.Aoileann has little interaction with the other people on the island who treat her as accursed (The taint is something unique to me, I have learned. The islanders call it scáth suarach anama. Soul-stench), except when sometimes men come across her in a deserted location when they casually rape her, treating her as an object in rather the way she thinks about her mother.As the story opens, Aoileann is approaching the age when she has been told she will have to assume primary care for her mother, particularly as her grandmother has a new job in a folk museum opened by those from the Mórthír, to attempt to bring some tourism to the island. Aoileann becomes determined to do something to prevent this becoming her life but also is determined to discover exactly what happened to her mother to make her this way, why the islanders view her as accursed, and why 'the bed-thing' has worn its fingers to bloody stumps of bone attempting to scratch messages into the floor.Another catalyst for the plot comes with the arrival of Rachel, a mainlander on an artist's residency on the island, and with a six-month old baby. Not being aware of the 'soul-stench' around Aoileann she befriends the girl and Aoileann, who although unused to talking with people is highly manipulative, talks Rachel into letting her help with the baby. But Aoileann is more interested in Rachel, regarding the baby with jealousy and, like her mother, as more of an object (the still thing in the cradle), even sampling some of Rachel's milk herself and fantisising about crushing the infant's skull:That’s what a baby is, I’ve come to see now. It is the mother’s whole soul extracted, freed from her body and out of her control. It is her entire existence absorbed by this chunk of meat, a jumble of tiny bones and flickering organs. That’s what a baby is. A little device with which to torment its mother. A bite of the meat-baby tears at the mother. Dash the little thing against the rocks, throw it away, and the mother ends.And as Rachel's time to depart from the island nears, and Aoileann father and grandmother find out she has been interacting with Rachel and her child, the story comes to a satisfyingly disturbing conclusion.Highly recommended but not for the faint-hearted.From the Irish Times.Where I End is a departure from White’s previous novels in terms of style. Filter This (2019), Unfiltered (2020) and The Snag List (2022) are what she refers to as romcoms, or chick lit — “a phrase I have no issue with [though] I can understand how older writers in that genre do, because they obviously worked very hard to elevate perceptions”.This fourth novel, meanwhile, is touted as her “literary fiction debut”.“I didn’t approach Where I End as: this will be my literary fiction debut. But I’m very happy that they’ve decided it is because I love literary fiction. I read as much literary fiction as commercial fiction. I don’t differentiate. I don’t think a lot of readers do.”