A Pizza in the Sun by Jack Prelutsky is a book that is a collection of fun and engaging poems for readers of all ages. Prelutsky engages readers in a different variety of poems that are silly in some but overall a bunch of fun to read. The interesting thing about Prelutsky’s book is that even though the cover is full of cover, illustrator James Stevenson left off color in his illustrations throughout the different poems in the book. I think this can help students engage more with the poems and all they have to offer and teach students about the components of different poems. The diversity of Prelutsky's writing makes this such an effective book for students to learn about the different characteristics of poetry. Although the topics all differ, you can find humor in everything that Prelutsky creates which makes it such a versatile book to have in your classroom. There are several poems that can be used for a variety of lessons and read alouds to engage with different readers in different grades. I would use this book with third through fifth graders to pick a specific poem and have them recreate it with the style and layout that Prelutsky has but with a topic that they feel passionate about. Students would have to have the same characteristics as the chosen poem does to help teach them about what makes up a poem. With students I would choose to do a read aloud to engaged students in an expressive text that could end up being used as a guided reading book later on after an introduction to it. The different range of vocabulary that this book of poems provides will help supplement the read aloud while students are engaging with it to create a great vocab lesson that would be effective for any grade. This book was a WOW book for me because of how engaged and hooked I was into this book about poems. I know right away that if I was into this book as much as I was, that students will be engaged and get a lot out of this book. I really liked that the poems seemed to take their own shape as they were telling their story and how well Prelutsky engages with the reader's imaginations.