Depression and Other Magic Truths is by Sabrina Benaim, Canadian poetess, spoken word and dance performer, she lives in Toronto. This superb debut poetry collection explores many truths surrounding the stigma of mental illness: depression is no longer a taboo topic, the many ways of coping and working through episodes, and most important, the path to recovery and wellness is possible.Close to her mother, Benaim was concerned how she will talk to her: “explaining my depression to my mother”. In the darkness of her illness she fears death—not her own but her mother’s. Leaning on her mother for support she writes: “I am afraid of living/Mom, I am lonely/I think I learnt it when Dad left;/how to turn the anger into lonely/the lonely into busy…” Parental abandonment is difficult to deal with in any case, and was symbolized by an abandoned house.In the poem “single” Benaim writes about her fondness for sweat pants, careless grooming habits, and avoidance of answering the phone. “the loneliest sweet potato” recalls going to the supermarket, the effort to hide her depression as she chooses her lemons and avocados, the effort it takes to appear like everyone else. “how to unfold a memory//the Kentucky heartbreak shuffle” is a telling longer autobiographical poem of rural country life: barrels of Kentucky Bourbon, cornmeal fried catfish, the street lamps, swings on the wrap around porches, the American Flags, and the sweltering heat.It was surprising that the organized poetic sequences beginning with “magic trick 001” to the final “magic trick 005” deal with symbolism and creative metaphorical lyrics. Many of these verses feature an enjoyable lighter direction, away from the seriousness of depressive illness. The titles of most of the poems are usually featured in lower case: “so my friend tells me she identifies as a mermaid”- “on platonic love being the real thing”- seven small ways in which I loved myself this week” .On occasion, Beyonce serves as a popular muse in modern (Millennial) poetry. Benaim’s poems that include Beyonce: “dear Beyonce” (I)- “dear Beyonce” (II). Previously, “There Are More Beautiful Things Than Beyonce” (2016) was a poetry release by Morgan Parker. Beyonce appeared on social media in her maternal glory over the summer (2017)-- inside a spectacular floral arch with her newborn “beybe” twins.This thoughtful insightful collection is hopeful and encouraging, illustrating numerous ways Benaim faced her troubles and depressive symptoms—fortunately she wrote poetry, found love and happily recovered. **With thanks to Button Poetry/Exploding Pinecone Press via NetGalley for the direct e-copy for the purpose of review.