This coming Thursday marks the 40th anniversary of the conclusion of the Vietnamese-American War. For me and for other diasporic Vietnamese like me, this date is especially significant, as it stakes out not just a traumatic event in our family histories but also a turning point: April 30, 1975 was the calendar date on which our families were reborn, redefined, translated, transmuted into English speakers, America dwellers, U.S. citizens.On the back of this book, there is a blurb written by the late American poet William Matthews: "The best writing we've had from the long war in Vietnam has been prose so far. Yusef Komunyakaa'sDien Cai Dauchanges that." Presumably, this quotation was elicited from Matthews around the time ofDien Cai Dau's first printing, in 1988. Since that time, it's safe to say the genre of Vietnam-War-related poetry has radically changed, growing broader, deeper, and more complex, to the point where Matthews's quote now seems a relic of a different geological age.When I was growing up in the American Midwest in the '80s and '90s, it seemed that the predominant narrative about the Vietnam War in U.S. media and U.S. literature was one that was firmly centered around a U.S. military perspective: in this collective cultural narrative, Vietnamese people were portrayed rather two-dimensionally as inscrutable yellow-skinned foreigners whose subjectivity either did not exist or could not be accessed. Vietnamese women, in particular, were depicted as either simple-minded rustics or unctuous whores. Englishman Graham Greene's 1955 novelThe Quiet Americanadmittedly predates this historical moment, but its introduction of a Vietnamese female character named Phuong -- alluring yet opaque, dim-witted yet unconsciously, tantalizingly sexual, a commodity to be fought over rather than identified with -- was echoed in western writers' portrayals of Vietnamese women for decades to follow. Contrast this erstwhile poverty of imagination with the current state of Vietnam-War-related literature: in both prose and poetry, there is now a wide range of diverse perspectives on the scene, including a whole host of powerful diasporic Vietnamese poetic voices -- voices like Linh Dinh's, Bao Phi's, Cathy Linh Che's, Ocean Vuong's, and Hieu Minh Nguyen's, to name just a few.In the context of this atomically potent, new poetic paradigm, Matthews's quotation is all the more striking. It is striking because it reminds us that, in a way, we have Yusef Komunyakaa to thank for the richness and nuance that now defines the genre of Vietnam War poetry. Komunyakaa'sDien Cai Dauwas the forerunner of it all. It is the beginning that we have to thank for today's robust middle.This slim book follows a taut, carefully constructed arc. It begins with poems about military maneuvers, treks, patrols, long periods in which gruff men lived in the company of other gruff men, watching and waiting for the inevitable to happen. The book then moves on to evocations of the non-masculine lives the war touched, the Vietnamese monks and (especially) the Vietnamese women, how some were burned alive or raped, consigned to the role of a military man's two-timed mistress or his saviour symbol. Then we get snapshots of how the military men spent their precious moments of leisure time: playing volleyball, listening to music, seeking sexual release. Then there are poems about POWs (on both sides), the brutalities they faced. This section segues seamlessly into a suite of poems about the unique struggles confronted by African-Americans in the U.S. military, fighting for a country in which racial inequality and segregation were still a reality. In the bleak prose poem "The One-Legged Stool," the speaker, an African-American POW, tells his North Vietnamese captors: "I've been through Georgia. Yeah, been through 'Bama, too.... You eye me worse than those rednecks. They used to look at me in my uniform like I didn't belong in it.... All I have to go back to are faces like yours at the door." Receiving word of Martin Luther King's assassination back home is an additional cause of demoralization in the African-American soldiers Komunyakaa portrays. Finally, the book ends with an elegiac contemplation of the crippled lives the war left in its wake when it ended, forty years ago this week: the boat people, the ostracized mixed-race children, the broken marriages, the bereaved families, the vets grappling with survivors' guilt and PTSD.There is a lamentable typo in the edition of this book that I bought: "dui boi" instead of "bui doi." Hopefully, this error was corrected in later editions. Overall, though, this is a book with an authoritative narrative voice, informed by intimate firsthand knowledge of Vietnam and of the Vietnam War (Komunyakaa even name-drops the 18th-to-19th-century Vietnamese poet Ho Xuan Huong in his poem "Saigon Bar Girls, 1975" -- a demonstration of deep cultural literacy that only the best writers in the field can match). The language is lyrical and imaginative, full of gloriously unexpected yet emotionally and visually precise metaphors: "Like an angel/pushed up against what hurts/his globe-shaped helmet/follows the gold ring his flashlight/casts into the void." This week, as the 40th anniversary of the fall of Saigon is commemorated, take a moment to sample the poems in this book. Read"Toys in a Field"; read "Boat People." Yes, there is much to mourn here, but there is also a birth, a new beginning, to celebrate.