When I was 16, I went to Kuala Lumpur for the second time in my entire life and I bought a poetry book calledI Wrote This For You: Just the WordsThe author wrote it under a pseudonympleasefindthisand for years, I had NO idea who wrote it. All I know is that I loved that poetry book so much that I would stick gossamer stickers of delicate pastel flowers all over its pages and I'd read page 107 over and over when I felt sad, letting the words wash over me. Therapy was expensive for a 16 year old but this book felt close enough to healing. It's still one of the most special books I own.And guess what? Finally, today, I found out that the poet, Iain S. Thomas who wrote this AMAZING poetry book wrote that book as well!I just couldn't contain my joy when I found out who wrote this book because it felt like a puzzle piece clicking into place.Of course, I would have loved this poetry collection, spattered with blue ink spots, emotions and tender words. Of course I should have figured out who wrote it! How could I have missed his writing style?! It is as memorable as an old friend you once loved and then moved away but the golden sound of their laughter stays. I just couldn't stop grinning because this means that Iain must be doing well enough to finally publish his poetry under his real name and I am so proud he is writing more poetry books! He deserves all the praise.This book contains longform poetry and shape poetry (words arranged inside shapes that form images). Most of the time, it doesn't even feel like poetry at all.If you dislike modern "aesthetic" Instagram poetry that has too many blank spaces and words so far apart, you'd be happy to know that this poetry collection is the complete opposite of that.The poems run together in long spreads, looking more like letters or small stories that talk about healing, loving, forgiving and speaking up. There are beautiful blue and red minimalist illustrations that I greatly enjoyed. There's just something about Iain's writing that makes me feel soconnected, you know? For the brief hour reading it, I felt very close to everyone else who may have read the same words "This page is Here to tell you that it'll be OK". It made me realize that maybe even at that moment, someone else around the world feels lonely, is hurting or crying or loving. They are Here. They are There. They are with us all when we read.The book touches on the concept of "Here", inviting readers to invent their own concept of "Here", staying grounded in the present and looking for things that matter.Reading this book is like sitting down with the poet himself, who happens to be a really good friend of yours. You sit inside your little blanket fort with him as the fairy lights flicker warmly and the rain spatters against your window sill. You are crying because you cannot imagine healing from whatever broke your heart or ripped your soul in half. But he is talking. The poet himself is whispering to you and holding you in his arms, telling you it is going to be okay and that you are strong, you are loved and it is human to cry.That's just how I felt reading this entire book. Being held, loved, seen and cherished.It's rare for me to find poetry that not only heals me but actually makes me feel like I should be kinder to others and heal them as well.I am out of words to explain how much I love this.My favourite excerpts:"I know who I am. i am the one that looks for me. And every single day, I find me again. I find myself in the things I do and the things I notice. I find myself in crowds and in solitude. I find myself in quiet moments and at the top of tall mountains. I find myself in the tips of waves, in forests, and in the books I read. I find myself in leaves and rain and old photos. Every single day, I find me again.""Show me how you tell someone that the thought of them spreads like a warm river through your soul, until it leaves through the eyes""I know a moment will come when I'm weak.But I'll open the onehappy moment I saved todayAnd live to see tomorrow."