"Every Time I Climb a Tree" is a collection of poems by author and illustration David T.W. McCord. In "Every Time I Climb a Tree", readers get an inside view of a child's life, through a childlike perspective. What happens when you climb a tree? What happens when you lick a fence? What happens when you see a worm on the floor? With rhythm and prose, each page turns into the next, revealing a new poem, and in turn, a new situation to laugh about, cry about, or relate to. "Every Time I Climb a Tree" is a must-have for all ages -- the simplistic vocabulary makes for a solid read for younger readers, while more advanced readers can enjoy and appreciate the deeper themes within each humorous poem.McCord's illustrations within "Every Time I Climb a Tree" are beautiful. Each page contains its own poem, and in turn, it's own illustrations. Surrounded by negative space, the relatively simplistic-seeming illustrations create a bare-bone effect, which perfectly parallels the block, to-the-point text. The illustrations usually contain one character with one or two objects, and seem to be created through using watercolor and charcoal pencil. Although the simplicity of the illustrations may seem uninteresting at first, the simplicity of the illustrations help highlight clues and insight to the corresponding poems. For example, in the poem "The Pickety Fence", the reader may be a bit confused with the short poem, which states "Give it a lick, its the pickety fence, give it a lick, its the clickety fence". This prose may be confusing for some, but the illustration of a young girl running along a fence with a stick, tapping against each beam, gives insight as to what the "clickety fence" is referring to. In this way, the illustrations serve two purposes: to compliment the illustrations, and also to provide relevant clues to help readers infer a deeper meaning from the prose. The colors are bright, such as the neon-yellow fence, and the characters are relatively realistic, adding up to a set of illustrations that are short, sweet, and to the point.Though the prose may seem very basic, it is in fact laced with deeper themes and meanings that can be relevant for children of all ages. In the poem "Every Time I Climb a Tree", the young child explains the difficulties he experiences when he climbs a tree - he gets bitten by ants, attacked by bees, and always, always, always scrapes his leg or skins his knee. Yet, despite having adults yell at him and question where he's been, he loves climbing trees, and expresses feeling "free". This poem explores the innocence of childhood, the desires of a child, and the need of all people, regardless of age, for an escape at times. Each poem relates childhood with adulthood and universal feelings, helping tie the poems to a community and world relevance for every child.