Two of my favorite poems are in this book. I Ate a Tooth this Morning, and I'm Stuck Inside a Seashell.Summary: I Ate a Tooth this Morning is about a girl who sat down for breakfast and her tooth fell out. It pooped into her cereal by accident and she ate it. She is sad to say that she will never see her tooth again.Review: I love the poem I Ate a Tooth this Morning because as a kid I was always nervous that I might also loose a tooth inside of something I was eating. I think this poem is very relatable for children. I also think that the little illustration at the bottom matches very well, as you can see the nervousness in the girls face.I might pair this poem with any other poems in this collection of poems, as all of these poems have humor and rhythm.Juicy Quote: "I'm sorry that is happened, and I'm sorrier to say that I will never see again that tooth I ate today." This quote is a good quote as you can hear the rhythm and pacing with this line of the poem, so it can be used to teach those thing about poetry to young students.Summary: I'm Stuck Inside a Seashell is about someone who got stuck inside of a seashell. The person went into the seashell and just kept going further in until they got lost. The person is nervous that he or she will never get out and there is no where left to go.Review: I love the poem I'm Stuck Inside a Seashell mostly because it is a concrete poem. The poem is shaped like the spiral of a seashell. I love this poem also because I love the beach and I have often wondered what it must be like for the animals that live inside seashells.I would pair this poem with other concrete poems to help teach students about creating that type of poem. In a Twist is another example of a concrete poem.Juicy Quote: "I am winding winding winding through this narrow spiral shape, and I'm sorry that I entered, for it seems there's no escape." This is a good quote from the poem because it matches the concrete picture of the poem. The students can visualize what it must be like for the person stuck inside the shell.