You and Iwill belost and founda thousand timesalong thiscobbledroad of us.When you don’t have the prowess of stringing your thoughts with rhythmic phrases, and you still dream to be called a poet, often you do what’s plausibly the most obvious alternative:Just write the sentences, and press theEnterkey in random places.You have written a prose-poem, congratulations!Just know this, pal, it’s not that easy. Don’t insult Rimbaud, he suffered enough to die young.Love isthrowing yourself into a stormy seahoping there are arms to catch youknowing that without the leapthere is only the safeand lonely shore.Ah, all that is definitely well put. But, even without sounding like a snob, I came across dozens of these stuffs whenever I misuse my spare time in social media. There are probably two things that make this one not so tedious: decent photographs that are quite in relevance, and content that isn’t at all obsequious. Exuberant yet imitative, to sum it briefly. I however came across something that did feel from the heart, in a friend’s quaint words:“And, it was wonderful for me, a woman, to be reminded that the world is also full of beautiful men who love and cherish women for the playful, complicated and stunning creatures they are. Men who would never harm a woman or take anything from her by force. Men who help women put on their coats, brush the errant hairs from their eyes, and are attentive to their protection and well-being, even in their sleep.”It certainly feels great that the quotes that so failed to impress me, managed to captivate someone as such. I have linkedJulie’s excellent review, though it may seem to be on the opposite end of the spectrum, despite being much more alluring.This book may have proved to be suitable for me, had I been someone who’s looking for some non-engaging stuff to finish his or her Goodreads goal? (I still don’t get these things…it’s not like you are going to die or something if you don’t.) I practically found it more underwhelming, for I read Anna Shtorm’sFriends Over Loversjust a few months ago, and it’s much, much better, while still being underrated. This one would have been more congenial for me if I read it on Instagram, quotes like:I want to be with someonewho dreams of doing everything in life,and nothingon a rainy Sunday afternoon.I do love to get nostalgic on those occasions, though. Maybe with some book I have had read for a zillionth time.