Title: Poems in the AtticAuthor: Nikki GrimesIllustrator: Elizabeth ZunonGenre: Picturebook of PoemsTheme: Moving, poetry, travelOpening Line/Sentence: Grandma’s attic is stacked with secrets.Brief Book Summary: A young girl finds her mother’s old poems in her grandmother’s attic and reads about her mom’s experiences moving around the world, since her father was in the military. The little girl writes her own poems alongside her mother’s and binds them together.Professional Recommendation/Review #1:http://www.clcd.com.ezaccess.librarie...Edie Ching (Booklist, Apr. 15, 2015 (Vol. 111, No. 16))A book about discoveries, this celebrates poetry and the quixotic life of a military family. A young girl responds in free verse to the poems she uncovers in the attic, poems her mother wrote in tanka (a form of Japanese poetry) about the wonder of her experiences living throughout the world. The mother’s voice dominates through longer poems and Zunon’s larger illustrations, but the daughter’s poems appear first on each page, and the connection between the poems is heartfelt. Their love of language and the natural world bind them together. There is also a rhythm to their experiences as well (the daughter writes of sand castles, and the mother, of a grunion run). Notes encourage readers to try their hands at either poetic form, while the pictures, a combination of acrylic, oil, and collage, encourage interest in the many places described. Pair with How I Discovered Poetry, by Marilyn Nelson (2014), for a slightly older audience interested in writing poetry and understanding the turmoil and adventure of being raised in a military family.Professional Recommendation/Review #2:http://www.clcd.com.ezaccess.librarie...Midwest Book Review (Children's Bookwatch, November 2015)Poems in the Attic" is a sensitive collection of two sets of memories captured in two verse styles, tanka, and free verse. The poems celebrate and explore the experience of moving from place to place as the child of an Air Force military family. One set of poems is discovered by the heroine, a young African American girl, in her attic. She is amazed to discover they were written by her mother about her experiences moving with her grandfather when she was a girl. The girl decides to also write poems, to "keep all my rememberings safe..." The tanka poems are brief, descriptive, and evocative, compressed verse in five lines, varying between five and seven syllables each. The original form of tanka poetry comes from Japan. The girl's mother wrote her poems in tanka, while the girl writes hers in free verse. A deeply moving story unfolds, in which two girls find solace from loneliness and change in their ability to write poetry. Here is one poem in free verse: Grandma Says / Memories can be like sandcastles / the waves wash away. / My mama glued her memories with words / so they would last forever. "Poems in the Attic" was chosen as a Junior Library Guild selection for excellent reasons. Tender, lyrical illustrations in acrylic, oil, and collage show mother and daughter as girls in different settings around the world where US Air Force bases exist. A list of eleven different such Air Force Bases is included in the ending pages, mapping out the journeys made by many military families and children to be with their parent(s) in military service. Inspired by stories shared with friends as well as the author's own experiences, "Poems in the Attic" explores the reality of a childhood in transition, using writing to help cope with multiple challenges of growing up a "military brat.”Response to Two Professional Reviews: I agree with both of these reviews because the poetry is beautiful. It really captures emotions and the connections between mother and daughter, as well as imagery and figurative language. It’s a great book of poems that explains what moving around all the time is like when your family is in the military.Evaluation of Literary Elements: Each picture throughout the book has the characters moving diagonally, which also symbolizes the constant moving around that military families do. Throughout most of the book, the mother is shown as the center of attention as she moves from place to place, which draws the reader’s attention to her. The characters are looking up to the sky when they’re happy and down at the ground when they are sad, further conveying emotion.Consideration of Instructional Application: For a minilesson, I would talk about both types of poems that are used in the story (free verse and tanka), as well as the figurative language and imagery that are incorporated into these poems. After the read aloud, I would have my students write poems of their own (either tanka or free verse) and I would encourage them to use figurative language and strong imagery. I could connect this story to other content areas by discussing the different parts of the world that are mentioned in the story. I could plan a geography lesson, as well as a lesson on culture and have my students do a project on whichever country from the story they choose.