Definitely a very creative work ofShel Silverstein(1930-1999) who is also the author of the 1964 book, "The Giving Tree" that I enjoyed so much I bought copies of which and gave away to my friends. I think I did that in 2001 not knowing that he just died a couple of years back. I also only learned that he's already dead by reading the Wiki while composing this review. Felt so sad.The story's main protagonist isRunny Babbitwhose actual name is Bunny Rabbit but for unknown reason he and all the animals in the story, i.e., Toe Jurtle, Skertie Gunk, Rirty Dat, Dungry Hog, Snerry Jake, etc., interchange the first letter of the two words of their names and most the other two-word phrases when they talk to each other. I had to adjust a bit at the start but eventually gained speed halfway the book. Just like any typical children's book, the story is composed of several independent funny events in the life of Runny Babbit and his friends and each story varies in my laugh barometer from mild, medium and outright funny. Hey, some are even cheesy or heartwarming (which should be for parents to enjoy).The drawings are hilarious! They are in black-and-white and done in simple way but the imagination of the illustrator is just awesome. They effectively complement the free-verse poems (that tell the stories). My favorites are "His Kajesty, the Ming" (pp. 19) with Runny's friends lining up while bowing down to him in respect and "Killy the Bird" (pp. 45) with the same set of friends lining up in surrender to Runny atop a horse with his gun. You should see their faces. Soo cute!During Christmastime, I normally give away to my friends and officemates the books that I enjoyed but do not plan to re-read. Many of those books are children's books since nobody in my family is interested to read that genre. However, this one I will keep for future re-reads. Also I still have to play the CD. Since my daughter is already 15 going 16, I think I will reserve that one when I already have grandchildren hopefully around 10 years from now.You who gave me this last Dec 18: you know who you are and I thank you for the friendship that I will be remembering everytime I see this book. Thanks for a wonderful book!