‘We, who are made and unmadeby the dark mass of the unseen.’‘I’m drawn to acts of looking,’sayspoet Jenny Xie, ‘and toward what a gaze can puncture.’ In her first collection, the Walt Whitman Award winningEye Level: Poems, she examined ‘all that is untouchable as far as the eye can reach,’ and here in her 2022 collectionThe Rupture Tenseher gaze casts a long look over the intertwinings of past, present and future, often through a camera lens that captured the Chinese Cultural Revolution and the reverberations of it still felt in her family today. The collection begins with brilliant ekphrastic poetry of the photos from Chinese journalistLi Zhensheng, who hid negatives of his photography that captured the public demonstrations and abuses during the Cultural Revolution under the floorboards of his apartment preserving them so they can be seen today, and moves into investigations of herself returning to China after decades in the United States as well as of her grandmother who would take her own life after the Revolution. With breathtaking poetry, Xie plunges us intomoments when we feel history, feeling its gaze fall upon us like a heavy weight as we gaze to the future.Li ZhenshengXie’s work often examines what she believes is that sight is ‘constructed and enabled and reinforced’ by the context around it. ‘Vision and connected forms of perception map the coordinates of what we know, while simultaneously directing our attention toward what remains unseen,’ she said in a recent ’interview. This idea takes on multiple meaningsThe Rupture Tense, particularly in the idea of historical events and the way our context is shaped by those who want to direct how we see it. Take the opening poem for example,Red Puncta, written about Li Zhensheng’s photography:By negative space, by forgetting's lining. Bybackground: fabric where things seethe. Wherefugitive looks and tung trees scrape open looseseams. In the far off, shame plants in earlobesand draws color. See how the background leaksout watery faces that haven't been rifledthrough. Such as the man in the crowd ofthousands, running his tongue over the filmscarring his teeth. Such as the woman, her fattylids betraying her drowsing. The ones fartheroff, their heads angled away, mouthing theunrecoverable. The background is milky fog, issolitary, is sight that is untold. Edge closer.Friction from the future lies in the folds.While Zhensheng’s photos captured the events of the Cultural Revolution, Xie tells us ‘a photograph is no place to keep the dead,’ and through the photos and these poems they ‘anchor’ inside the viewer/reader, a reminder of history that resonates forward. It is a reminder not to let the past repeat itself, such as inPostmemorywhen she warns ‘Nature reuses / plotlines / not wanting / to waste / a thing,’ but also that the past informs the present.(photo by Li Zhensheng)‘There are others. The brutalized. The hanged. The stoned. The lashed. The suicides. The betrayed. The paranoid. The disappeared. The executed, slender backs to the firing squad. How close Li had to stand to acquire their expressions, close enough he could smell the spume of blood and of brain matter.’This is a sharp collection that finds interesting ways to continuously circle back into it’s themes. Xie uses a variance of styles, such as a poem written as instructions to a game and gives close attention to the use of white space. Many poems leave large gaps between lines that remind us of how even with gaps in time everything is interconnected, past and present as we forge towards the future. These gaps are felt in her poems about returning to China, felt in the titular rupture tense between past tense and present tense where she finds it is ‘no surprise that I’m more verb than subject.’ Xie looks at the idea of identity that is rooted in a country that now feels forgeign to you, with all its past moving within you.Meeting PlacesThe world clangs!Death barks back in the furred dark.In the recesses of newsprintyou trace the ragged linewhere one country joinswith another by torturous stitchesand feel convulsionsalong your midpoint.The world stops clanging.Death licks at its privates.And then you turn the page.There is a lovely reflection on heritage going on here, but also the pains of feeling removed from it. ‘How can I be trustworthy with this mouth,’ she asks of being an English speaker. Luckily for us, the readers, Xie uses it to great poetic success. Shortlisted for the National Book Award,The Rupture Tenseis an outstanding collection of work that brings past, present and future alive.5/5‘When spring comes around, you carry the weight of spring.When summer comes around, you carry the weight of summer.When fall comes around, you carry the weight of fall.When winter comes around, your pages fall open.And you, all future tense, leak through.’