It has been way too long since my last book review but I’m here with yet another poetry book. This one is the newly published “she fits inside these words” by husband and wife r.h. Sin and Samantha King Holmes, and R.M. Drake. “Ars longa, vita brevis” are the immortal words from Hippocrates written on the back of this book. It means, “skillfulness takes time, and life is short”. I like this quote but I think it really only vaguely fits the theme of this book, and I say that because there’s barely a theme to this book. I have read entires from each of these poets before but only attached to Sin. This is 100% still his book, everything about it matched his style and he gets the most pages, out of five chapters he gets three. None of the three poets have matching themes and King’s poetry is nearly inseparable from Sins’s. Sin brings his usual topics of relationship advice for women (from his straight male view). It’s starting to get annoying how he caters to a very specific audience (probably because the books keep selling). I feel so left out when I read his work but it’s good work. I just don’t know how much more he can write on the same topic, almost everything he writes in here is a rewording of the same thing. King’s chapter slows everything down because she writes in a longer prose style that puts much more words on each page (which must be why her section is the shortest). And Drake’s chapter I’d say is the best. His chapter starts with this beautiful poem dedicated to his brother and instantly switches things up by not being a poem about empowering women. And while that’s not a bad message to do, it’s the only message Sin ever does. Sin also uses a prose style for most of this entry in his long list and I feel he works better in a more traditional style. At the end of the day, this is still a very enjoyable read that you can speed through. Of course I’ll continue buying Sin’s books because I’m dedicated at this point and the cover art is super aesthetically pleasing and looks good on my shelf. All that said, “she fits inside these words” is probably an 8/10 (4/5 Stars) from me. Excited to see what’s next, hoping Sin shocks us all and mixes it up for once. -Tyler.