I wouldn't have read this if it hadn't been a gift. It gives me serious "rupi kaur knockoff" vibes, and it honestly feels like the publisher is capitalizing on trends to make a quick buck. It seems like a publicity stunt or cash grab because of the author’s acting fame, although I’m not familiar with her work—a vanity project rather than a heart project. It features all the staples of Instagram poetry:•	Teenage-journal-entry-style poems that often include the phrase “I love you” and the words “heart,” “sunset,” and “flowers”•	One sentence broken into individual lines with no variety in the form or language•	Identical platitudes about how we should live life to its fullest and about how bad breakups are hard•	Trite imagery and metaphors, like comparing heartbreak to a festering wound•	No titles, just an author signature•	Simple line illustrations (although these were drawn by someone other than the author and had all the creativity of stock images)An example:I want youin every shadethat you come in.All the goodand all the bad.And another:how can it be loveif you don’t fearthe loss of them.Swimming Lessonsshares the same emotional immaturity of Amanda Lovelace, Cyrus Parker, and yes, rupi kaur’s poetry with its Instagram aesthetic that’s easy to read but ultimately shallow. It is poetry written by and for people who have probably never read a contemporary poetry collection beyond rupi kaur, with the type of forced maturity that tries to mask the lack of depth in the poems themselves. For example, half of the unimaginative illustrations are of naked people—and I have zero problem with nudity—but I didn’t feel much sensuality in the poems themselves. There’s also a well-placed “fuck” here and there that adds to that feeling of manufactured maturity.For me, the constant expression of “I love you” in a poem (that’s not directed toward me) rings hollow because it’s become a cliché in our general expressions of love. The purpose of poetry, to some degree, is to paint the familiar in an unfamiliar light, to convey the universal in the specific. Like other young contemporary poets, the author sacrifices the personal for the universal, which makes the poems forgettable, more like inspirational wall decor you'd find at Hobby Lobby rather than individualized art. There’s an absence of specificity, of unique imagery, of profound insights that feel homegrown rather than prepackaged.The strongest sections of this collection were the descriptions of the author’s depressive episodes. Those felt the most raw and honest, and I suspect they were the ones that drew the most from her own experiences. I highlighted the poems on pages 109, 128, 154, and 155. Here’s an excerpt from one poem that talks about how we can mean to love “forever” in the moment, but we never truly mean it:You couldn’t have fathomed an endwhen you were with them,and now you can’t imagine a worldin which they’re still there.Our forevers are so fleetingthey almost mean nothingAnd here, where the author describes being transported into a captured moment of stillness in her past and reflects on how we forget so many of those small moments in life:The sound outside aligned me witha former version of myself.And I suddenly felt the gravityof my being.I might not have judged this collection so harshly if the poet had been a teenager, but the author is only a few years younger than I am. I’m sure she was well-intentioned and earnest in creating this collection, but I’m certainly not the target audience for it. I think preteen readers would relate to these poems. In fact, I can imagine my younger self sneaking this book off to my room to read it, back when sex and drinking felt more taboo, and I wanted to sample what life could be like for my "adult" self.Also, as a general thought: if you have to work to earn someone's love and they hesitate to love you back, that is never a positive sign. Deep, fulfilling love is reciprocal and the easiest thing in the world.Ugh, I've become a total poetry snob. For a poetry collection that achieves what Instagram poets aspire to achieve but fall short of, tryMy Wicked Wicked Waysby Sandra Cisneros.These poetry books at thelibrary sit there likepretentious little fucks