‘Lord, I confess I want the clarity of catastrophe but not the catastrophe.Like everyone else, I want a storm I can dance in.I want an excuse to change my life.’The apocalypse of the present has become ‘so loud we finally stopped hearing it,’ warns poet and activist Franny Choi in her third collection,The World Keeps Ending, and the World Goes On. A hard hitting collection that centers on concepts of endings, Choi blissfully incorporates the aesthetics of science fiction into her poetry, crafting landscapes of the now as dystopian wastelands that make this read with a rather epic sense of urgency. ‘Grief's a heavy planet’ and Choi takes us through the horrors of the past and present and asks us what the future will hold. There are difficult questions poetically posed, moving between global scales wondering if it is already ‘too late for the earth / to yield anything but more corpses,’ to more personal examinations of identity such as when she asks ‘am I the colonization or the reparations?(she adds later ‘I choose to be the reparations’).The World Keeps Ending, and the World Goes Onis a powerful collection of socio-political criticisms, and examinations of history and cultural identity that delivers lines that will knock you right over and others that will tug your heartstrings with such an urgency that you cannot, and should not, look away.‘Sliced from bone, my lifeHung like a jaw—faultless. AndUnforgivable.’The weight of history hangs heavy in each of these poems, moving across atrocities of war—such as the dropping of the atomic bombs which figure into several poems—mass refugee and immigration movements, and even into the present with poems addressing the COVID-19 pandemic. While the amalgamation of traumas and troubles is often thought to be leading towards an impending apocalypse, Choi asks us to consider that it has already happened.She shows how, for many marginalized peoples, they have been already living in a post-apocalyptic world for decades, such as in the title poem:‘[T]he apocalypse beganWhen Columbus praised God and lowered his anchor. It began when a continent was drawn into cutlets. It began when Kublai Khan told Marco,Begin at the beginning. By the time the apocalypse began, the world had already ended.’In aninterviewwith Alyssa Lo from Catapult, Choi says ‘it might be helpful to remember that the apocalypse happened a long time ago and that our people have survived it and have been surviving it for many years,’ and thus the collection, which builds itself around the title poem, looks at the sadness but also at the ‘unthinkably inventive modes of survival’. The ways in hardship people conclude ‘Why not / smother doubt to save the family / we’re responsible for.’The poemWith Mouths and Mushrooms, the Earth Will Accept Our Apology, for example, nods to the matsutake mushrooms that were the first living thing to come from the devastated landscape of Hiroshima after the bombing. Here, Choi contemplates the renewal of the natural world, with or without us, after humans have wrecked our environment. It reminded me of the hope in the final paragraph inCormac McCarthy’sThe Roadwhere the plant life begins to slowly return and ‘hummed of mystery.’ The hope in this book takes hold even through all the darkness.‘O beasts of fortune, I am loved sweetest by the horrors of blood,By my own, and by ours, blessed root rot, by ours.’Choi looks back to her ancestors frequently in this collection, as guides and as touchstones to moments in history. ‘Sometimes I wonder how long I’d have to run / to reach the last generation where one of us felt loved,’ she writes, feeling part of a lengthy legacy that has endured history but has been scarred in the process, ‘I come from a short line of women / who were handed husbands as salvation from rape.’ The legacy of misogyny and homophobia lurks in all the corners, even language as in one poem Choi looks at how the term ‘comfort woman’—Korean girls who were kidnapped and put into sexual servitude for the Japanese army during WWII—was a phrase to comfort the perpetrators of sexual violence, linguistically softening the connotation of their actions where the term ‘sexual slavery’ would have shed more truth. ‘Whatever helps you bear the day // whatever sweet, what touch’ Through it all, however, Choi builds a hope for the future as a way to bear the legacy into a new light, and hopefully we will all survive the many apocalypses that are to come.But what sort of legacy are we leaving? InProtest Poem, she considers the ‘as-yet-unbuilt museum/ of what we had to survive / to make paradise/ from its ruins,’ what artifacts of today will we leave behind, and what will it say of our present. InScience Fiction Poem, she lists the many minor ‘dystopias’ of our daily living, causing us to look around us in a new framing and acknowledge what we endure. This can be comical, such as in another she considers how with the world heading towards political and environmental disaster, we look away and fill our time with online shopping. Though one of her most powerful poems,Field Trip to the Museum of Human History, addresses the legacy of police brutality where ‘In America, there were no greater / protections from police than wealth and whiteness.’ Partly inspired byThe DispossessedbyUrsula K. Le Guin, Choi herself has been a prison abolition advocate and it makes its way into the hope that is central to her work.‘You don’t haveTo believe in something for it to startle you awake.’With poems that either grip you by the throat or the heart,The World Keeps Ending, and the World Goes Onis a dazzling and chilling collection of poetry. The dives through history are dark, but Choi never leaves us without a hint of hope for light at the other end of the tunnel.4.5/5