I read most of this book while listening to Tiny Moving Parts and Taylor Swift's new album in a hipstery coffeeshop in DC and it was such a beautiful time.I'm quite sad to have finished this series. I wanted to read it for so long and now that it's over, I'm left with such a sense of longing. I want to be friends with the poet, to drink wine together as we realize that we don't need anyone else but ourselves in order to feel whole.I had two encounters this week. In the first one, I met a guy and I really wanted something from him. In the second one, I met a girl and she really wanted something from me. Both of them were strangers from the internet, both of them were great people, people that I trusted blindly and don't regret it (and my god, someone should have already murdered me, with all of the bad choices I've made lately). And I was so vulnerable in front of that guy and that person was so vulnerable in front of me.I could go on a rant about how fantastic the internet is but really, so much of this book made me think of those two encounters, how incredibly different they were but really, how they were exactly the same, how much of being a person depends on the ability to speak up, to say what you want, to make it clear to the others around, how kindness is such a powerful thing, how femininity is a raw and gorgeous entity, how much I've grown as a person to be able to go through these two encounters and truly take the most out of them, how fantastic it is to be able to connect with pure strangers and really see them. How magical it is to be seen.There's much to say about this style and the future of poetry but really, all I want to do now is find a place to throw my suitcase in and go on a run through National Mall. Briefly, I like this. It's repetitive and if you read one of her books, you know what it's going to be about but this truly resonates with me.I wonder what it'll be like to reread this book in 4 years, I somehow feel I'll still love it but also that I'll be more critical.Welp, I essentially just got kicked out of this cafe and will probably never come back to finish this review but yeah, this is a nice quick read.What I'm Taking With Me- Say hello to fairies around you, enjoy the sound of mermaids singing.- Enjoy moments of vulnerability- Fight villains.