‘Nobody’s free without breaking open.’2016 saw the rise of Ocean Vuong with his incredible and well-lauded debut collection of poetry. Deservedly so as Vuong has a gift of language to discuss difficult and painful subjects in a way that illuminates them in beauty.Time is a Mother, his second full-length volume of poetry, makes good on his early promises of excellence as Vuong examines grief from a multitude of vantage points, be it grief from loss of a loved one or a country. Following his debut novel,On Earth We're Briefly Gorgeous, an autobiographically informed work that centers on the death of his mother, here we find poems that extend the theme and processing of grief, frequently drawing parallels between human and animal bodies as if to remind us that any loss is tragic. He simultaneously grieves the loss of cultural identity as one ages in the United States instead of a home country where the scars of war stand out in the family history of relocation. Vuong is at his best when playing with form and in the longer poems that give room for experimentation and compounding of an idea, andTime is a Motheris a gorgeous and heartbreaking collection that is as teeming with emotion as it is poetic integrity and execution.‘You’re smiling because the starsare just stars & you knowwe’ll only live oncethis time.’There are few aspects of life more universal than the mourning of death, and birth and the inevitability of dying are two things we all have in common. ‘Lest we forget, a morgue is also a community center,’ Vuong writes, and these poems are something we can all come together around and harmonize about the human condition.Time is a Motherfeels the natural follow-up to Vuong’s novel like an abstract afterword as commentary on what had transpired in the book but also a bridge forward to whatever will come next. In these pages we see the whole of Vuong’s life, such as family members, generational trauma, musings on identity and more culminate into the grieving process and an inward look at one’s small position in a vast universe as memories show they have emotional barbs and processing pain and feeling the weight of existence becomes a necessity to continue living.‘Because this mess I made, I made with love.’There are a wonderful variety of techniques utilized here, from short poems that deliver a staccatoed burst of images to multipage emotional epics and dense prose poems that read nearly like deleted scenes from Vuong’s novel. Personally, the more daring and experimental poems or longs ones work best for me, such as the poemReasns for Staying, an emotional knock-out inspired by his Vuong’s uncle who took his own life in 2012 that lists soul-stirring moments of life that uphold the beauty of existence. ‘Because they came in to my life, these ghosts, like something poured,’ he writes as he lists reasons to live that include rain falling on his partner’s shoulder, reading ‘my books by the light of riotfire,’ or ‘because this body is my last address.’In another poem he lists the Amazon purchases of his mother over the course of a year, a narrative of a life suddenly upended by cancer slowly and cleverly being revealed by the list of items in a way that touches on the way details of our lives become marketing data for corporations to sell us products. List poems appear several times in this collection, withOld Glorylisting common phrases to show how normalized violence and death is into our language. It makes us stop and consider how phrases like telling someone to “go in guns blazing” might not seem like positive encouragement to someone who has experienced war or been a family of refugees. Some of the later poems are written as dense prose poems, which aren’t my favorite personally, but Vuong packs a lot of emotion into them.‘Because the fairy tales were right. You’ll need sorcery to make it out of here.’The grief in these poems is not only for those who have passed, but also for the living who are marginalized by society. ‘I used to be a fag now I’m a checkbox,’ he writes inNot Evena poem that later details a scene where a white woman tells him he is lucky that his identity as a queer immigrant lets him write about war and sexuality. ‘Because everyone knows yellow pain, pressed into American letters, turns to gold,’ he remarks, commenting on how his griefs aren’t simply a marketing trick and that the idea of being jealous of it is rather disturbing.Time is a Motheris an impactful collection that shows Vuong has plenty more to say and will continue to be a big name in poetry. While it doesn’t hit me as strongly as the first collection, which is so endlessly quotable, it is still quite an impressive collection that resonates and left me thinking of these poems when I was away from them. May we be reading Ocean Vuong for a long time to come.3.75/5‘How else do we return to ourselves but to foldThe page so it points to the good part.’