1 Star DNF @ 63%Wow, I did not anticipate this would be a DNF for me. I'm actually incredibly disappointed, but in retrospect I'm not super surprised.I gave the 1st book in this series 4 stars. Looking back now I realize that was an incredibly generous rating. At the time I thought this series had a ton of potential, and although there were some red flags, I figured things would improve/make more sense as the series continued. Unfortunately, that's not what happened. This addition was confusing, slow, and quite honestly, boring.There is such a mix of issues that it's hard for me to exactly pinpoint what went wrong here, but I think it can be culminated by saying this book seems to be having an identity crisis. Is this a romance? Is this just a fantasy where a girl (continuing from the first book) is STILL trying to figure out how to access the Underhill? So many interesting plot points were started in the first book - the relationship between Lan and Alli, the fact that Alli's father was murdered//her father was king, the whole backstory with Lan and Alli as children, Rudy, the wild fae, the ghosts/Alli's mothers people etc, but none of this is being fully fleshed out or tied up. I realize I'm not done with the series, or book, but c'mon you have to give the reader something! It feels like these plot points are left hanging and there isn't anything that I'm interested in because nothing is being delved into. Honestly, by this point in the book I'm just sort of confused. Alli and Lan are sort of together but not (I'll expand on their relationship more), they are just on the run the entire time still looking for a way into the Underhill. We continue knowing nothing about Alli's magic, their relationship isn't progressing at all (I've lost interest tbh), and fae courts are almost entirely removed from the story (they feel like an afterthought).The writing is a bit odd in this too. The plot moved forward in a weird, stunted way. And I don't even really mean plot, because truly, it's not moving forward. It's like the characters are continuing on their journey and moving from place to place because things just work out? The story has a lot of movement but no real progression. ie. Alli and Lan will be running, will stumble upon X thing (Ghost talking to Alli, a kelpie to transport them, random person who will help them, whatever), and then progress into the next scene. It's a really odd way of telling the story - things are just sort of working out for them. They aren't "successful" in their journey due to their own merits.A side note on the characters - I felt a bit meh about them in the first book - but now I have decided I don't like Alli, Lan, or literally any of the other characters. The biggest issue is they all lack depth. I have zero connection to any of them. Alli is, quite frankly, annoying. Her character is odd because she has basically no redeeming qualities and her line of thought in different situations makes no sense. She's almost comes across juvenile, yet this is a NA novel? There is cussing but then there is literally no sexual tension or smut in this at all. Is this YA or not? Because it feels like YA, but with cussing and the characters are a bit older. (ie. the identity crisis I mentioned earlier).Now Lan - again I know nothing about him. There is zero depth here. I was actually quite interested in him, how he became an Unseelie, his family dynamic (being grandson of Lugh), his presence in Alli's childhood, why he's so protective/possessive of Alli etc. but none of these plot lines have been explored. Honestly, the whole "orphan reading buddy" thing seems to have been completely abandoned. It's so disappointing because that was one of the only things that made Lan and Alli's relationship semi-believable.Now the relationship. Going into this I thought that this would be a fairly romance driven book, especially since the actually storyline of the Underhill is so lackluster. Well, there's basically no romance here. Lan and Alli have literally no chemistry, NOTHING is happening between the two. They have an odd "touch and freak out" situation, but it doesn't really do anything for me. I don't believe these two are compatible in any way. It's also difficult to root the two because their characters are just bleh (and I dislike Alli).Overall, I came into this with way too high of expectations. Rather than moving the series forward in an interesting way we are left bored and a tad confused. I've been trying to read this for 3 days (which is a very long time for me to finish a book) and have only gotten to 63%. There's no point in hate reading the rest. I won't be continuing the series.