Originally published in 1968, this adorable picture-book was one of the reading staples of my early childhood, so I was simply delighted when it was chosen as one of our December selections, over inThe Picture-Book Clubto which I belong, where our theme for the month is "toys." This gave me the opportunity to revisit an old favorite, which I greatly enjoyed! The story of a teddy bear who longs for a home, and the little girl who falls in love with him on first sight,Corduroyfollows its eponymous ursine hero as he sets out, late one night, to find a button to replace the one he had lost, sitting on a department store shelf for so long. Eventually returned to his shelf, still sans button, Corduroy is confronted the following morning with a wonderful surprise...There are so many things I love about this book, that it's difficult to know where to begin! Freeman's artwork is charming, and his story engaging. It taps into some common childhood fantasies, from the idea that toys come alive, when the humans leave the room, to the wish-fulfillment scenario in which one wanders through a normally crowded locale - a store, a museum, a busy street - late at night, free to explore in ways that one usually wouldn't be. Although I can't say I thought about it much as a kid, when I simply took it for granted, as part of the story, I love the fact that Lisa, the little girl who eventually takes Corduroy home, thereby fulfilling all his dreams, is an African-American child. I love that this is a matter-of-fact reality, rather than an important part of the story, as so much of the multicultural literature being produced for children nowadays feels more "issue" driven to me. This is just a delightful story about a bear and a girl, in which the girl happens to be black. I can't think of too many vintage children's titles (excepting the work of Ezra Jack Keats) where this is the case.I'm so happy to have reacquainted myself with this beloved title from my childhood - it more than lived up to my memory of it! - which I read and reread as a little girl. I think I will hunt down the sequel,A Pocket for Corduroy, which Ididn'tread as a child, and see if it is just as good...