First reread January 2015Original rating: 5New rating: 10☆☆☆ Post-Shift Productions proudly present ☆☆☆Just Another Day in the Life of Kate Daniels►8.00 a.m.:roll out of bed after getting 2 hours of sleep. Realize you're hungry. Open the fridge to get some of that leftover apple pie.The plate is empty.Strange.►8.30 a.m.:rescue your teenage werewolf sidekick from Saiman. Watch Saiman change form andthrow up in your moutha little.►9.00 a.m.:find out His Furriness became Beast Lord at the tender age of 15 after chopping Andorf's head off.This is going to be a long day.►9.30 a.m.:your best friend tells you she doesn't want to be Raphael's TWT-IHFB.Oh boy.►10.00 a.m.:have a conversation with His Fussiness aboutkissing his ass.►10.30 a.m.:hand Saiman a needle so he canpop his head with it. It's obscuring your view of the room.►11.00 a.m.:listen to Jim telling you about aweredingo. Consider yourself lucky he didn't steal your baby.►11.30 a.m.:try to smile. Aim for sweet. End up looking like apsycho-killer.►12.00 a.m.:listen to a lecture about the different shapeshifter courtship customs. Aunt B. A cat on the ceiling. A fan. Mist.That's boudas for you.►12.30 a.m.:go sightseeing with Jim. Visit a jungle and a flying palace. Play with the locals.Chop a few arms off. Things are looking up.►1.00 p.m.:tell His Furriness he's a deadly psychopath with a god complex. Then tell him you'rehaving rough sex with Jim. Bad idea.►1.30 p.m.:temporary insanity. Oh. My. God.The Universe just exploded.►2.00 p.m.:explain to your furry friends why you want Cesare's head. Then proceed to explain how you plan toresurrect it and make it relive its deathover and over again. Did you just say all that out loud? Yep. You did.►2.30 p.m.:the Beast Lord asks youwhy you always attract creeps. Ha! He walked right into that one, yes, he did.►3.00 p.m.:Andrea says M-A-T-E.You curse. Then consider strangling her a little.►3.30 p.m.:fight in the arena. Jim tells you to be sloppy.You try.►4.00 p.m.:have a conversation about sausages with your furry friends.Die, die, die, die.►4.30 p.m.:Raphael hands you a fan in case you get hot. Curran doesn't think you need it.This cat's such a bore.►5.00 p.m.:remember the good old days with daddy Voron back when you were thirteen.Sightseeing in South America. Visiting arenas. Slaughtering things a bit.►5.30 p.m.:another fight in the arena. Blade-sprouting silver golem ✓ Troll (aka the overgrown log) ✓ Ancient vampire ✓ Enjoy seeing them die ✓This is so much fun.►6.00 p.m.:take a relaxing bath in a hot tub.Try to pretend the Beast Lord isn't in there with you. Oh. My. God. The Universe just exploded again.►6.30 p.m.:yet another fight in the arena.Oh, look, it's the Scarlet Star."Hessaad." Mine. "Ud." Die.Sorry daddy, I think I just broke your sword.►7.00 p.m.:Oh look, it's the flying palace again.Feeling suddenly very tired. It's been a long day.►7.30 p.m.:Lose a little blood.Cut a head off. Feel much better.►8.00 p.m.:find out cats are suicidal morons.Who would have thought?►8.30 p.m.:try telling the people in your head to shut up.It doesn't work. Oh look, a cat.►9.00 p.m.:go home. Find someone in your kitchen.Wait. What?►9.30 p.m.:read a note reminding you of an upcoming dinner.You're allowed to wear a bra and panties. Oh boy.*********Original review (June 2014):How much better can this series get!?I’m seriously being blown away by every new instalment here. KD = pure awesomeness. Fabulous, exciting, memorable, astounding, staggering, wonderful, impressive, breathtaking, and nothing short of downright amazing.Ever went on a roller coaster ride?Take that feeling, multiply it by 10 and you might get an idea of what this book is like. There is so much to take here that my heart must have stopped beating quite a few times as I wasreadingdevouring Magic Strikes. The world building blew me away (again). It's even richer and more complex than in previous instalments. I didn’t think it was possible but yes, the Andrews got even better at it! This series is probably the better-crafted I have ever read. We had to wait for the third book in the series to find out about Kate’s blood and why she is so special but it was handled very well by the authors. Situations and characters take time to evolve and develop within the series but it doesn’t feel forced as all things are revealed in due time. There is still a lot to figure out about Kate though which leaves room for much more development in instalments to come.I think what I like most about this series is that it is so well-balanced.The action and battle scenes are mind-blowing(and that’s saying a lot since I usually hate battle scenes), there is emotion, lots of humour, mystery, mythology… Everything really!Oh and the characters!Kate & Curran are just great (I love that the romance part of the book is only a subplot so far and not taking over the whole series), the Derek situation isheartbreaking, Saiman is a total creep but I love him, Julie & Dali are both welcome additions to the cast of characters, I love Andrea, I love Raphael… As I said in a previous review I think I just love everything single character in this series, even the evil ones!What else? The quotes! The quotes!Sorry, I can't resist it.Seven pairs of glowing eyes stared at me: four green, three yellow. Judging by the glow, the shapeshifter crew hovered on the verge of going furry. One of their own was dead and they were out for blood. I kept my tone light. “You fellows ever thought of hiring out as a Christmas lights crew? You’d make a fortune.”A shadow crossed Andrea’s face. “I don’t want to be his TWT-IHFB” “What does that mean?” “That Weird Thing I Haven’t Fucked Before.” I choked on a bite of gyro.“His Majesty needs a can-I girl anyway. And I’m not it.” “A can-I girl?” Andrea frowned. I leaned back. “Can I fetch you your food, Your Majesty? Can I tell you how strong and mighty you are, Your Majesty? Can I pick out your fleas, Your Majesty? Can I kiss your ass, Your Majesty? Can I…” It dawned on me that Raphael was sitting very still. Frozen, like a statue, his gaze fixed on the point above my head. “He’s standing behind me, isn’t he?” Andrea nodded slowly. “Technically it should be “may I,” Curran said, his voice deeper than I remembered. “Since you’re asking permission.” Why me? “To answer your question, yes, you may kiss my ass. Normally I prefer to maintain my personal space, but you’re a Friend of the Pack and your services have proven useful once or twice. I strive to accommodate the wishes of persons friendly to my people. My only question is, would your kissing my ass be obeisance, grooming, or foreplay?”Saiman sighed. “At the risk of sounding crude, wooing you is like playing basketball with a porcupine. No compliment goes unpunished.”I gave him a smile. I was aiming for sweet, but he turned a shade paler and scooted a bit farther from me. Note to self: work more on sweet and less on psycho-killer.Curran looked back at me. “Why is it you always attract creeps?”“You tell me.” Ha! Walked right into that one, yes, he did.As he passed me, he leaned to Curran and handed him a paper fan folded from some sort of flyer.Curran looked at the fan. “What?”“An emergency precaution, Your Majesty. In case the lady faints.”Curran just stared at him.Raphael strode toward the Pit, turned, flexed a bit, and winked at me.“Give me that,” I told Curran. “I need to fan myself.”“No, you don’t.”Get me the next instalment! Quick!•Book 1:Magic Bites★★★★★•Book 2:Magic Burns★★★★★•Book 4:Magic Bleeds★★★★★•Book 5:Magic Slays★★★★★•Book 6:Magic Rises★★★★★•Book 7:Magic Breaks★★★★★•Book 8:Magic Shifts★★★★★•Book 9:Magic Binds★★★★★•Book 10:Magic Triumphs★★★★