Thisis my All-Time-Number-One-Favorite children's book.Period.I've read it to my kids so many times over the years that you'd think I'd be immune to it by now.But I'mnot.Istillget all EMOTIONAL when I read it.Which, normally, would make me run in the opposite direction.But.OH!THE PLACES YOU'LL GO!Yo'll be on your way up!You'll be seeing great sights!You'll join the high flierswho soar to great heights.Yep. That's exactly what I want for my young'uns!Wherever you fly, you'll be best of the best.Wherever you go, you will top all the rest.Except when youdon't.Because, sometimes, youwon't.Noooo! Now they're stuck in a LURCH!Which is pretty frickin' scary for a parent! Nobody wants their babies to get stuck in a LURCH, because those inevitably lead to SLUMPS!Andun-slumping yourself is not easily done.It takes a while to un-slump, and in the meantime they could end up in The Waiting Place.Waiting for the fish to biteor waiting for wind to fly a kiteor waiting around for Friday nightor waiting, perhaps, for their Uncle Jakeor a pot to boil, or aBetter Breakor a string of pearls, or a pair of pantsor a wig with curls, orAnother Chance.Everyone is just waiting.Thankfully, (according to Seuss) they'll somehow escape the Waiting Place.Fame!You'll be famous as famous can be, with the whole wide world watching you win on TV.Yes! They'll be ok!Except when they don't.Because, sometimes, they won't.I'm afraid thatsometimes you'll play lonely games too.Games you can't win'cause you'll play against you.All alone!Whether you like it or not,Alone will be somethingyou'll be quite a lot.At this point, I'm usually bleary-eyed, in case you were curious.And exactlywhatis this guy aDr.of, anyway?!He's certainly not Dr. Feelgood!But on you will gothough the weather be foul.On you will go though your enemies prowl.On you will go though the Hakken-Krak howl.Onward up manya frightening creek,though your arms may get soreand your sneakers may leak.Holy Shit! What if I'm not there to help them through all of this!? They've got sore arms and leaky sneakers, for God's sake!Mommy's coming, sweetheart!You'll get mixed up, of course,as you already know.You'll get mixed up with many strange birds as you go.So be sure when you step.Step with care and great tactand remember thatLife'sa Great Balancing ActI'm slinging snot everywhere by the time I get to this part.Seriously, Seuss? You'rekillingme!And will you succeed?Yes! You will, indeed!(98 and 3/4 percent guaranteed.)KID, YOU'LL MOVE MOUNTAINS!I'm usually nothing more a puddle of sniveling Mom-goo, as my voice cracks on the last line. And whatever unfortunate kid I happen to be reading to is simultaneously trying to comfort me, while also trying to escape my vice-like grip."I, um, love you too, Mom.*oof!*Mom, seriously, I'll be fine.*cough*Mom, you can let go now.*wheeze*Mom...you're choking me.*gurgle*Yes. Yes! I swear, I'll call you every day when I get older!"