It’s getting a little hot in here, isn’t it? That’s because Red Queen has unearthed what I never thought could occur: AminiDarkling. That’s right. Yet another morally ambiguous character and I am sold.I’m a book pusher and I’m going to push this one right into your hearts.Red Queenis the fantasy that I’ve been searching for. You’ve probably all heard the comparisons before and honestly, they speak the truth.Red Queentook the best elements from all our favourites (and our not so much) tales and smushed them into one phenomenal book with an equally addictive storyline. Yes, this is indeed an Xmen high fantasy and yes, my heart did stop. Aveyard has ticked all the right boxes for me. She’s a heck of a debut.Red Queenbegins as all high fantasy dystopias do, with ayoung unassuming girl slumming her way through her rather unfortunate situation only to discover that she’s special.Yes, that does sound mildly sarcastic. Yes, this did have the“You’re special”line. But you know what? I’ve come to a point in my life where I’ve realised, do YA fantasies do it any other way? It feels like a genre requirement at this stage and who am I to complain when a hundred and one others do the exact same thing. Mare Barrow is a highly agile pickpocket. It’s the only means with which she can support her family. But time is running out. Like her brothers, she sees a future of conscription for herself. Her eighteenth birthday is looming and without a job to pardon her, she is set to enter the frontline. And it scares her. The thought of war, the thought of leaving her sweet, innocent sister behind, the thought of waving goodbye to her parents, yet another member of the family unable to support them. However as life may have it, her seventeen years of familiar suffering are about to take a different turn. As in, she’ll suffer, just at different means. You see,Mare is discovered to be an impossibility, the secret that could topple an already precarious hierarchy.Society is ruled by the silvers. They are a race seemingly set apart by God. They themselves have usurped the title. As abnormalities defying the mundane genetic makeup, they are creatures to be feared. You can go either two ways with that—to the ditches or raised up on a throne. The Silvers are blessed with the latter.They are Gods in the arena of life.“Long ago he called us ants, Red ants burning in the light of a Silver sun. Destroyed by the greatness of others, losing the battle for our right to exist because we are not special. We did not evolve like them, with powers and strengths beyond our limited imaginations.”Their inhuman capacity to bend the elements has crafted an illusion of invincibility.Reds however bleed red. They are mortals, cursed to a life of servitude.“…no one pays attention to another Red servant, another insect wandering past the feet of gods.”And a society without equality? It’s a dangerous tower, begging to topple over.As a Red with a Silver aptitude, Mare is dropped into a dangerous game. It is a political desire that keeps her alive. While her days are limited to however long she can keep in line, Mare is given a route out of the slums, away from her fate of war. In a bid to placate the hunger for a rebellion, she becomes a Red in disguise as a Silver, betrothed to the King’s second son. From there on out, it is a game of chess."A puppet. A show to keep people happy, quiet, and trampled.”Alliances must be won and bought. Secrets come at a cost.What I adored aboutRed Queenis the concept. It was delectable. The abilities reminiscent of XMEN add a unique flavour to the mix. The world building was neither underwhelming, nor overwhelming. Aveyard interweaves all facts and ideas into her intricate world in a fluid manner. We also see elements of The Selection added to the bag, onlywithout the pettiness.We enter Aveyard’s world just as Crown Prince Cal is set to be engaged. The Queenstrial is set in place as a selection process. Only, instead of vying for the Princes attention, it is a little more of a family affair. These Silver women all hail from families equivalent to dukes and duchesses. It’s a bloodbath, not between the ladies, but between the families. And they’re all out to impress one person: the king. You see, it’s all a ploy, for the Queenstrial is merely a selection process for political ties. The marriage is a means to an end, an cementation of an alliance. And in that arena there is only one thing that prevails: strength. Power and strength are two concepts that could happily marry one another, and in Red Queen, they certainly do.The action sequences were incredible. Red Queen digs a little deeper,exploring political themes, alliances and the ultimate consequence of repressing a race.“This world is Silver, but it is also fray. There is no black and white.”It, like all dystopias, tells the tale of a fight for liberation. Humanity does not wish to be oppressed. It craves expression. And the structures that have carefully restricted the Reds, barricading them into one route in life, threatens to crumble with the dawn of every new day.“You believe you are the masters of the world but your reign as kings and gods is at an end.”Unlike other dystopias, we deal with life at court inRed Queen. And in that instance, there is a heavy influence of political ploys, deceit and games. It is a battlefield and it is the explicit who fall first. The shadows, those who play their cards, are the ones who ultimately have the upper hand.“I’m the shadow and no one remembers shadows.”Red Queensets a question for the new dawn: Can those who cheat one another overlook perfidy in order to band together against an ultimate enemy who has betrayed them all?For a debut novel, Aveyard writes stunningly. While she does not hold the outright lyrical styles of the likes of Bardugo and Stiefvater,she writes with a balanced combination of short, concise simplicity with an ounce of lyricism every now and again.It is a prose that will be likened by many. Often with high fantasy tales, humour can be disregarded, however I appreciated thatAveyard knows a little thing about sarcasm and banterand she incorporates it brilliantly.“You want me to pin my entire operation, the entire revolution, on some teenaged love story? I can’t believe in this.”I’m going to hug Aveyard.I love the dig she took at the conventional dystopia.My little heart is swelling with pride, considering this is a topic I tackled in a critical essay of mine (which I also refer to as my baby. You know, casually.) I enjoyed a good laugh here and there.The characterisation was fantastic.We have a set of characters that are tenuous in their beliefs but deep down they are flawed.Tragically, deeply and realistically. Mare Barrow reeks of desperation. She’s in it to survive. She knows the stakes and I appreciated her character growth as she realises that there is a greater cause at hand. Cal, the crown prince, lives under the delusion of hierarchy. It is a precarious structure that he is set to rule and he understands the pros and cons—it is easier to maintain dictatorship then it is to liberate. And he attempts to seek the easier route. Maven, my little puppy, lingers in the backdrop, the second son to a kingdom that will never be his. He is demure, quiet but he is steadfast in his belief. Despite his apprehensiveness towards Mare, he finds himself intrigued by her. And he’s just a little sweetheart.But I know that you’re all here to hear about the romance. I get you. We all know that there’s going to be one. And there is. One that I ship so incredibly hard. In fact, I may even ship the politically incorrect side because god knows I have a thing for sociopathic characters. They feed my curiosity. I’m intrigued by the unknown.“He knows what he is and, worst of all, he likes it.”Humbleness and good intentions do not faze me.Some may say that this is a love triangle. I’m going to go right ahead and say that itmay not even be a romance, at this stage.If anything, Red Queen is playing down a dangerous path, one reminiscent of Bardugo’s infamous Grisha series. That’s right, I said it:We have a Darkling. You know how I feel about that. Of course I’d gravitate towards this book. That being said, this book reeks of betrayal. Love thrives off trust, connection, understanding. What brews inRed Queenisdark, delicious and destructive.Neither party will foster a healthy relationship.Now I don’t want to speak too soon, considering I did an incredibly silly thing by reading this in 2014, butRed Queenhas got to be my favourite fantasy set for 2015 thus far. That’s a bold statement to make, considering we haven’t even entered the year yet. I am however willing to take that risk. You see,Red Queenjust explores a winning formula for me. We are at thebrink of a revolution funded by the desire for revenge.It isjustifying darkness in hope of pursuing lightness, liberation and levelling the amount of pungent injustice.And that isbegging to fail.And I want to see that unfold.Many thanks to the publisher for providing an advanced copy in exchange for an honest review. All quotes used were obtained from uncorrected proof that is subject to change in the final publication.___________________Two words:New Darkling. Read at own risk. Something's coming. Like my full review.In the mean time, I'll be quick and vague. This isXmen put in a cake mix withShadow and BoneandThe Selection(DON'T BE PUT OFF. I mean this in that we have a Selection BUT it is not a petty, shallow, fickle show of swinging back and forth. DO NOT EVEN COMPARE IT TO THAT.)We have a protagonist we longs to survive, a crumbling hierarchy, a delusional view of justice and peace and a war of strength and power. The stakes are high.It is what appears to be a love triangle but honestly, it's not that in any sense. These characters are destructive, they are flawed, they shan't have a happily ever after. And they've cracked my heart in half, to be honest. I'm drowning in my emotions here.Go preorder or something. This is beautiful. I'm book pushing this for 2015, alright?