What is it to fall out of love? It is has been a long time since I’ve done it and so I don’t remember. From what I recall, it was something unconscious for a long time. Something in your turn of phrase, in the explanations that you seek out and find, the articles you share and how often you choose to go to bed early. I remember it being full of protestations, a passion that was stronger than I felt and heavy with tears. The music I remember is always on constant repeat and probably confused by memories of soundtracks that sound like what I thought I ought to have felt. Then the crazy part: the whole story collapsing in a rush, like a child running through the bricks of a castle they have painstakingly constructed, and then, at the last minute, had doubts about. It’s the sort of threatening story that needs to be buried, and forgotten until years later when you can bear to look at the ruins that you’ve (of course) saved one more time.In Persuasion, Anne argues with a sailor about the constancy of men and women’s love and claims for her sex the privilege of loving longest, long past when all hope has gone. I have no interest in making generalized assumptions about female kind, but I will say that I do this. I do this for the sake of what has come before. I do this with people, with friendships that have long since failed to be anything but pantomime and re-enactment and with formerly awe-inspiring idols who turned and showed me their zippers a long time ago.I also do this with art, music and especially with books. It’s been a long time since I’ve fallen out of love with a person, book, movie or thing that has been a long standing favorite. At least, that is, become disenchanted with it in a way that is a conscious, deliberate process when I wasn’t quite sure that was what I wanted, rather than a slow, natural and gentle falling away that makes total sense and offers no conflict of understanding or sense of having the rug pulled out from under me. But that streak is over.***Kay’s books have been on my favorites pile for over a decade now. In and of themselves, they are not perhaps worth this depth of feeling now that I reconsider them. They are comfort reads, things I reach for when I want a tale told by a fireside on a winter’s night or on a lazy summer afternoon. But they are one of those names. An immediate touchstone when I’m asked for favorites, something that hit me at the right time and lead me a lot of other places. There's a lot to love in his books. He is a writer who always wanted to be a poet, and that shows, positively in his writing. The imagery can be beautiful and his settings lush and detailed. His habit of drawing from archetypes and connecting each of his books in a dream alternate universe of history serves him well. Since he stated his worship for the Old Stories in his first trilogy (Fionavar), he’s done a lovely job deconstructing each legend or tale down into the parts that matter. What I have loved about his writing is what I thought the point of this exploration was: to take the importance off the words and events and put it back where it matters- on the humans involved. Whoarethe people whose names turn up in history’s famous and turbulent times? Why do they make the choices that they do? Are they another race of “heroes” and Great Men or people in a particular situation who decided to be brave that one time? He did a great job making things make sense from a more everyday, practical angle, while still keeping the mystery, awe and adventure that makes these stories fun to hear to begin with. He added to the experience.But not anymore. At least, not with his last couple of books. Since Ysabel, it seems like the focus has shifted. The lens is no longer as much about bringing out the characters from the tapestry and giving them three dimensions. It seems like now he’s decided his deconstruction is about the structure of the tale itself. He uses his usual methods of looking at an important time through the people who lived it, but the point no longer seems to be to illuminate these characters as they are and where they are. Now it seems like it’s about telling me a tired old story and sing it to comment on the nature of storytelling and its differences from history, myth and legend. We’re not being taken inside the depths to see what it’s like living there anymore. We’re back on the outside again, just like Fionavar, looking in at people we don’t understand, who make no sense in their context, and are shaped to fit the tale rather than the other way around. People are gone and story is back.So what, you may say. Authors are allowed to and should evolve and explore different things. I agree with you. This doesn’t sound, necessarily, like a bad evolution in and of itself. If you spent that much time exploring stories through your characters, you might have found out some things that you wanted to share too. Isn’t that the point of writing? Sure. But only if it works and tells you something new. Unfortunately I think that this new tactic has ultimately gotten rid of everything he’s good at and brought into sharp relief the things that have never been his strong suit.*To start with, since I am no longer looking at and involved with his characters or involved with the loveliness of his writing (I’ve seen enough of it to be past the first blush of that, especially since a lot of it can be repetitive), I’ve spent a lot of time thinking about his message and the ultimate point of what he says. That is: what is the function of what he writes? What is the function of this character’s thoughts, of that character’s arc? Why is it that women smile and die and men hang their heads in sorrow and live? Most importantly, why are we singing an elegy for this moment that we’re experiencing? Why do we care that one era is dying and another is about to be born? How is this enriching my understanding of why these sorts of conflicts happen or those decisions are made? Kay found his answer to this through people before. I was on board with that. That makes sense to me. People screw other people and their morals for the sake of their children. People make decisions that are hazardous to their health because they think they have nothing left to lose. People keep secrets to protect others and people hold pointless grudges because they are bitter about the way their life turned out.Not anymore. Now characters are now afunctionof the plot and it shows. For example, in this book we’re exploring the nature of what makes a hero and how his legend is made after his death. This is a common theme in Kay’s writing. He’s done it well before, exploring the ambiguity of a figure like El Cid and his motivations, or a true believer in nationalism who ends up forging a country from battling fragments through twenty years of work. Now, in this book, we have a hero who we are just asked to believe is a hero because Kay says he is. Instead of proving that to us and showing us a person earning his way to the top, the man inside the legend, hedecides to skip all that and just get to the good stuff. In order for his hero to be as young and successful as he wants him to be, he has him rapidly promoted from being a boss of a swamp gang to a commander of a fifty thousand strong army and more and assumes that it all goes pretty well along the way. His hero never falters and oh by the way goes on front line dangerous expeditions all on his own. In case we still doubt, he has him marked by a sex goddess. And seriously, I kid you not, he shows the goddess mark on his back to prove to everyone how Special he is. There’s a whole lot of “I was born to do this,” nonsense going on, too, as a reasoning for his motivations. Really? Because people who constantly make statements like that are someone whose hubris I would be wary of tripping over. Seriously, Kay, what are you even talking about?It seems he’s abandoned the theory that every hero is a person and returned to the Great Man theory once more.Same goes for his main female character. Instead of showing us a strong woman who has grown up naturally out of her particular circumstances, we geta father who is supposedly quite shy and likes to avoid notice but believes in very modern co-ed equal child rearing techniques and then a woman who anachronistically shares most of the stances, attitudes and modern strength of women without peculiarities or differences like we got with Jehane or Catriana in the other books. She’s supposed to be this awesome poet and foil for the hero, but their attraction makes little sense- born out of him attempting your fake assassination, really?- and we’re asked to believe she’s awesome based on one deduction she made that one time which repeats the whole book. The poetry we’re asked to venerate is terrible, and she makes no other decisions that make sense for a woman of her position and time period. She makes the decisions she does because that’s what she needs to do to be a poignant set of eyes for us to look through and see Important People of the day through Everyman Eyes and what she needs to do to connect her to the hero. And of course- of course!- she is the only Enlightened, Special female surrounded by a lot of inferior specimens who fulfill that ridiculous stereotype that rarely exists and is completely not useful- dumb and pretty and naïve, or otherwise Lady Macbeth.Other supporting characters are barely there- with the possible exception of the main lady’s husband who is the sort of well drawn minor Kay character I remember. We spend time with a lot of other people, butthe women are there mostly to be beautiful and deadly in a sexy way or stupid, as mentioned above, and the men are there to be noble or not and then die themselves.If he’s not giving me rich character development and complex scenes to evaluate, then the weaknesses he’s always had in his character creation (most of which are listed above) are going to be that much more obvious and not worth overlooking for the sake of the overall picture being painted.So, now plot is king and the compensation that we get for this two things: the first is bigger, longer and more frequent action sequences and talk about the movement of armies. Which is tiresome in the best of circumstances and no more so than when it goes on for hundreds of pages and is centered on either really groan worthy stuff like: “OMG! ‘Barbarians’ are so good at war! It’s a shame we let our army go and have no superpower to look after us and prop up our dignity! We should have listened to Winston Churchill after all.”...or the upshot of this which it sounds like is a message about how you never evolve past the need for force and you should always Support the Troops. Which, argh. Thanks for that. Appreciated.The other thing we’re given in exchange is intermittent musings and pauses (just like in Under Heaven) where Kay talks about the nature of the legend that gets built up around these people, how they are remembered in the history books or not remembered at all. He spends ten pages building up a character we’ve never seen before and then kills him off to make a statement about Life or something and the tales that never were. He goes through a pivotal moment in a character’s life and then tells us all about how that tale was passed down. Unfortunately, removing himself from his characters andtellingme things in his narrator voice is not something that I think is a strong point for Kay. When he makes his points that way they sound obvious, trite, clichéd and hackneyed, pick your adjective. As an example, their gist boils down to: “It is sad when people die young and their potential is wasted.” “Sometimes there are unsung heroes who don’t get into the history books.” “Did you know that sometimes there’s a difference between what history says and what actually happened?” and that old favorite, “City people are corrupt and decadent and Everymen or people with a connection to the country or serious education are totally virtuous.” Which, I am happy for you to uphold education as awesome, but if we’re spending the whole book judging characters and situations based on how “smart” people are and then telling us we should be in awe of how smart they are (and of course their insights are not always worth this breathless worship) then you’ve got a fetish not a strong belief in education.Kay's suddenly quite impressed with the Deeper Meaning and Message behind the stories and wants to make sure you know about it. It's like that thing I read once in an article about Springsteen- his music suddenly got kind of lame when he decided he was a "bard of the people" as opposed to writing great songs about specific moments, situations or places and letting the meaning precede from that.** Preaching will never beat good character development. Metanarration on your points will never beat illustration of your points. It seems like Kay has forgotten that in his last several books, or he’s made the conscious choice that he disagrees with me. He’s revealing the framework of his structure to be weaker than I wanted to know that it was, and I have no way to look away anymore or to decide that I’m crying so much right now that I can’t possibly bring myself to care. Kay has always wanted us to mourn for things that are lost, to understand why he speaks with such delicate nostalgia about things that will never be again, and why History and its making are wonderful, beautiful, brutal and sad. But he’s skipping forward to the nostalgia part without doing his groundwork first. He’s assuming we're on board before we even start, impatient to get to the emotions he loves to indulge in at a fever pitch without making them worth it. This is not the kind of story that you want to ask a whole lot of questions about. But I can’t stop asking them with these last couple of books, and not in a good way (most of them brought to you by the letters W T and F.)And so I didn’t even finish it. I wasn’t even interested. I knew where it was going and how we would get there and I couldn’t have cared less. Unfortunately, I think that means I’m done with Kay for now. That’s a weird sentence to write, but I just don’t see that there’s anything else here on offer for me. It’s a shame, because this is one of the last reliable fantasy genre places I could go and be assured of a positive experience. Maybe the upshot of it all is I’ve just outgrown this or read enough and it’s just time to look in new directions. Sad to let it go, though! That’s all.*An alternative to this analysis is that he’s still doing what he’s always done, especially since the form and structure are still there, and just not doing it as well. But I am going to assume for the purposes of this review that the changes are intentional.** Please understand, unlike Kay, nothing will kill my love for Springsteen's music, and he will always be a fabulous performer, but the point is what I'm after here!