I want to savor these stories little by little because they are so darn good but I find myself rushing through them needing to know what happened next!! I find this anthology so far to be quite fascinating and I am enjoying myself immensely reading through the creative and varied voices within these 'songs'.JACQUELINE CAREY: this was the first story that I chose - and quite purposefully, at that. It was of Anafiel Delunay, who was once known as Anafiel de Montreve, a poet that was good enough to become the King's Poet and perhaps more but such events were not meant to be for himself and his star-crossed lover. This story about Phedre's mentor fills in a small chink of his life before he became known as the Whoremaster of Spies and the compass by which Phedre lived her life using knowledge he ingrained within her towards the one promise he made to his star-crossed lover and one that Phedre will see fulfilled. I cannot tell you how excited I was to read this story. It was brilliant, poignant, and heart-wrenching. The first Kushiel trilogy is still to this day my all-time favorite trilogy that I have ever read and I will always have copies of the Kushiel series in my bookshelf. THIS story was the reason that I had to have this book so quickly after coming out. When I heard that Ms. Carey had a new Kushiel story for us set in Phedre's time I was already sold - and I don't regret it one bit.NEIL GAIMAN: This was my second stop in this collection as Neil is probably second on my list of authors due to his wit, versatility, and charm and it was very much... unexpected, actually, but in a good way. There is a fun twist at the end of this story that I won't spoil for you. It's a fun read about a mythical past and what happens when that path has never been or perhaps has outlived its usefulness? I'm not sure. Either way I quite liked it. Not my favorite of Neil's short stories but a good solid read nonetheless.JIM BUTCHER: I admit that I've only read the first two Harry Dresden books as pushed onto me from a guy friend numerous years back. I felt that the writing was tight, the story was well-written and interesting, I liked the main character, but... it just never stuck with me. However, reading a new mini-chapter in Mr. Dresden's life was kind of fun even if I missed out on some of the obvious references to character stories that I would have easily gotten if I had continued with the story - the selfsame references that I relished with glee while reading Ms. Carey's story above. A good little peek into Harry's life though it still hasn't convinced me to pick up the third Dresden File.JO BEVERLY: I can't say that I have read any of her books before so this was my first foray into her writing style which seems to read like a tame Regency Romance. While I liked the idea of an unwilling bride (a "marrying maid") that must be wed and bed before a certain young viscount's birthday or his whole family would die due to the machinations of certain faery royals it fell a bit flat and forced for me near the end as if there was a page-limit that needed to be - and was - enforced strictly. The ending seemed far too rushed and I felt it needed at least a couple more pages to be fleshed out with far more arguments and 'accidental' encounters in true Regency fashion.CARRIE VAUGHN: I wasn't quite sure about this story. I felt thrown into a world where superheroes seem to be a thing of them norm (very Watchmen-like) as it followed a brief glimpse into Charlotte's hectic playwright lifestyle as she gets ready for her play's opening night. The night before the show opens she gets taken hostage for a brief moment, gets rescued by a masked man - a "blue collared" superhero - and the consequences of that moment which change her life. A good idea but ultimately forgettable.M. L. N. HANOVER - A dark and gritty ghost story. It was a quick read with a small twist at the end that was not altogether very surprising. It was definitely a different take on the death and love theme which was a nice change of pace.CECELIA HOLLAND - A new spin on a classical fairytale idea: a once-pretty girl becomes disfigured in a fire but is given a chance to become beautiful once more as the companion queen to a wizard king but all is not as it seems in his land and she wakes every night from incubus dreams. She must make the decision to stay with the wizard or find a way to return home to a plain boy that seems to love her. The moral of this story is a common one - that nothing comes for free. This was another short story that seemed to jump around rather quickly and I would also have liked to see it fleshed out a bit more as it felt far too short because events were happening far too quickly for my liking. I could definitely see this as idea for a novel-sized book but with that said I'm not sure I'd pick it up if I saw it at a bookstore.MELINDA M. SNODGRASS - A slice-of-like space story with the rescue and reunion of a disgraced tailor's son who is currently captain of a small merchant vessel and the heiress of an empire who also happens to be his former love. I am an avid fan of Firefly and somehow I could sort of see this story in that world, just a bit, when thinking of Capn. Reynolds and Inara. While I don't tend to like sci-fi stories I was quite pleased that this one used far less technical jargon and focused on the emotional rollercoaster of the two main characters. If there were more sci-fi stories written by Ms. Snodgrass I'd consider giving them a whirl.ROBIN HOBB - Awww, I really liked this story. It was a typical, sweet, fairytale and one that flowed well and fit well as a short story. It starts in the middle of a 17 year old girl's life after her father's death as a helpmaid at a Keep. She spies black-haired minstrel there and... well... I'm sure you can figure out the gist. A well-written and fun little story that made me smile at the end of it. One of my new favorites of this anthology, even if it was saccharine sweet (and rather unrealistic).MARJORIE M. LIU - This was probably one of my least favorite stories in this collection. It takes place in a post-apocalyptic future following a brief glimpse into a woman's life as she deals with darker creatures. It reminded me a bit of Richard Matheson's "I Am Legend" and just didn't appeal to me at all. I ended up skimming large swaths of it to get through this story.LISA TUTTLE - A short story about a woman and a wolf and the problems that the wolf's owner faces as he tries to get out of his drug dealing ways so that way he can be respectable - with a slight twist at the end. It was well-written and I enjoyed it but was not enthralled.LINNEA SINCLAIR - Another story that takes place in the future but a technologically advanced one at that meaning that I'm already inclined to be less interested because it is sci-fi in nature. So it was not a surprise that I found this story rather boring and I skimmed through most of it.MARY JO PUTNEY - I'm hesitant to say if I liked this story or not. It flowed and I liked the characters - with a hardened and handsome magically inclined detective and his favorite person, an elderly lady of the same magical persuasion he fondly calls "Lady Beth" - but the ending had an odd twist that I wasn't exactly expecting. Still, not a bad read.TANITH LEE- I am an avid Tanith Lee fan so I very much looked forward to reading her story - and I was not disappointed. It took place in the future - and in the past. It was about a man and one woman - but then a different man and a different woman. Stories that became entwined, chance encounters that never happened but perhaps should have, and star-crossed lovers that missed many lifetimes before they could find one another. A fun and imaginative read. I was impressed and pleased by this story.PETER S. BEAGLE - An alien encounter through a bizarre computer using 'The One Key' to communicate. Not what I expected from the man who wrote "The Last Unicorn" but it wasn't bad just different. And a different take on what 'love' means. It was written strictly from the protagonists' perspective whom I didn't garner great feelings for so ultimately the story fell a little flat for me.YASMINE GALENORN - A sad, sweet ghost story that drifts softly, silently on tiny cat paws through the pages swiftly read and enjoyed. A woman with a traumatic past moves into her ex's family house and gets to know his aunt - and the cousin that died years before. It was prettily written and kept me interested so that I finished this story in record time. Recommended.DIANA GABALDON - Another time-traveling story from the the horrors of WWII back through the standing stones and back again. It was nice to get a side-story from the Outlander series (one of my all-time favorite series behind Jacqueline Carey's Kuhiel trilogies) but I was very much not a fan of "Echo in the Bone" - I couldn't even finish it because I just stopped caring about the characters that were not Jaime and Claire - so the reference to that book and the mysterious men Jerry meet in the past was frustrating because I had stopped reading "Echo" before that point. All in all an ok side-story but not an amazing one. Mrs. Gabaldon still writes well-researched tightly written stories but I'm having a hard time with her work as of recently because I'm not really getting into anything she has written after "Drums of Autumn". I was really looking forward to this story as well but was a bit disappointed in the end. Ah well. These things happen.I can't believe I took the time to write little blurbs for each story in this anthology. More often than not I felt ho-hum about what was written but I am leaving my 4-stars up (rather than pushing back to 3) because the stories that stood out really stood out. While these stories seemed far from new and illuminating they were still good fun to skip through and I generally enjoyed them all. I don't feel as if I wasted time in reading them which is always a good thing. I suppose the strength that comes with anthologies is that if you don't like a story much you can always skip it and find a new author and a new voice to continue your journey along with.