Rating: 5 stars“You can’t fight destiny – taunt it, yes, but to fight it will only consume you and, in the end, destiny always wins.”With Adam and Synthia having been revealed as Fae, they now fight with an identity crisis in this sequel and adapting to the world and themselves in a new skin. Terrified of Transition growing ever closer for Synthia, and with her coven now not a coven, Synthia is the most lost she has ever been in her life and Ryder only serves to lead her and her emotions astray because she is falling for an incredibly deadly creature - her enemy, and without knowing very much about him and his convoluted past.“That is what people spend eternity looking for. That’s why men go to war when they lose it.”From being human to now being part of a species who not only cleaved her life but her soul apart, Syn is in the midst of huge changes and transformation with no real place in the world including the very Guild she grew up in. Already having lost so much, Syn only continues to lose more and more, Ryder still being responsible for those losses and still intent on claiming Synthia with everything he has, while still maintaining his own lethal secrets and having no plans of letting Synthia get too close to him or his sordid past. Only, for a man who has never known love and self-proclaims of not being capable of such a thing he can’t give her the one thing she deserves more than anything. But Ryder isn’t the only one concealing the truth, for the people closest to her are too, and Syn is being kept in the dark for her own safety but also to expend her from what hearing the truth will mean.“Sometimes we have to rely on the most improbable course when looking for answers to our problems. Some call this faith.”Destiny definitely puts Synthia through the obstacle course of life in this book and is anything but lenient where she is concerned. Her life is transitioning at the speed of a freight train. It’s a mess, her heart is a mess, her mind is a mess. Luck and fortune are really not on her side. Struggling with the foreignness of her own life and past Syn searches for answers but does not like the ones that show themselves to her. Synthia tries and fails to let go of what was and accept what is whilst coming face to face with some of the horrors of her past.“I can get knocked down, but what I can’t do is stay down. Don’t ask me to, because the answer will always be no, every fucking time.”Ryder has a crucial and substantial quest here in the human world because his homeland is dying and as closer and attached as he finds himself becoming to the woman he never saw coming, he will stop at nothing and no-one to reach his destiny, even if the price is Synthia herself. Though they may not realise it, Ryder and Synthia’s destinies may be more aligned than they comprehend and Synthia may have a bigger role to play in this fight for Faery and its demise. Though Synthia’s trust for Ryder is precarious at best and as unpredictable as Ryder can be, Syn knows he is her biggest form of protection from the threats coming for her.“I told you that I would protect you. Even if you don’t need me to. Some things are worth protecting.”‘Romance’is too sweet a term for what flows between Ryder and Synthia. What they have is unforgiving and gritty and gruelling. What they have is tinged in with darkness, drowned in mayhem and deadly in its own right. There are so many reasons pulling them together, but so many more pulling them apart.“Someday someone is going to look at you with a sparkle in their eyes as if you are the most beautiful woman alive. They’ll look at you like you are everything they’ve ever wanted, everything they’ve ever dreamt about. Wait for it, my daughter, for he will be the light that brings you to life, and lights your way through the darkness.”In a generalised sense I’m quite an objective person when approaching matters but trying to understand the enigmatic anti-heroic mess that is Ryder tends to make me lose all sense of composure. I think it’s obvious that Ryder’s story is one of redemption and overcoming and that is what I am waiting for when it comes to this irksome and vexatious man. Taking a note from this book, I will also trust destiny’s plan in seeing where this tale takes Ryder.“Destiny has a plan for us. It’s not our job to know what it is; we just have to follow It and trust that destiny will put us where we need to be.”I appreciated this book as much as the first, it was fast paced and though some elements of the story were predictable, the majority of it was not and I was left stunned with what did take place, the twists and the aftermath. It was rich with speculations, deceit, confliction, the spectrum of emotions spreading a wide net and the characters being enticing to read – one of my absolute favourites being my fellow Demon, Ristan. We learn a lot more of the Fae history, politics and the twining of Celtic mythology in this narrative. Synthia is just as quirky, charming and frank as I remember, her banter with all is one of my favourite aspects of reading in this series. The lewd humour and sarcasm adds its own dimension and so much happens in a very short space of time without being troublesome to follow. I like the pop culture references this series highlights and how soundtrack heavy it is. New castes of the Fae are exposed amongst Faery kingdom rivalries, and with the ever - thickening breadth of the plot, it was another gripping read from start to finish. Although I have my issues with certain characters, the outline of the story, the way it was strategized and the impact it had on me can only allow me to give it nothing less than a 5 star. Addictive. Wonderful.“I need to touch your soul and leave my mark on you, so that you never forget me.”Destiny isn’t just fighting Synthia, it’s taunting her – with that she can have, what she can no longer, what has been robbed from her and that which will never be the same. Escaping Destiny may be the only option Synthia has…“Even destiny can change if the will of two people is strong enough. I say fuck destiny, and let us decide what our future is. It changes every time we make a choice, and I damn sure don’t think anyone can say what will happen just by seeing it. Nothing is set in stone until it’s happened.”Favourite/Memorable Parts/shocking moments:1)	Mister Fancy Pants.2)	When Adrian sings to Syn.3)	Ristan being the voice of reason and his relationship with Synthia.4)	When Syn sifts for the first time in Ryder’s shower.5)	The scene in Sidhe Darklands when Synthia goes into Transition.6)	Every time Ryder comforts and protects Synthia when she needs it.7)“Holy fuck buckets.”8)	Ryder soothing Syn in Transition.9)“I lost count after seventy.”10)	Syn saying Ryder’s manhood was better than chocolate.11)	Every time Ryder tells Syn she is beautiful.12)	Alden & Syn’s relationship.13)	Every time Adam name calls Ryder in his chapter.14)	The things Ryder admits to throughout the book.15)	Ristan’s preference for heart consumption.16)	Kinky Ristan.17)	Every uncharacteristic gentle and kind thing Ryder does for Synthia.18)	The prophesies and visions.19)	Larissa’s reappearance.20)	Alden’s deal with a certain Demon.21)	I never thought I’d feel so much for Ryder almost dying.22)	Fae in tuxedos.23)	The ‘beast’ playing with fate.24)	Synthia being the blood heir.25)	Syn getting to know her real family.26)	When Syrina visits Syn in her ‘dream’ – how was that possible?27)	Syn binding herself to the Horde king.28)	That ending was really good.Thoughts while reading/concerns:1)	When Ryder spoke of love in Fighting Destiny, it implied that he knew such as thing first-hand but he claims to not be capable of feeling it at all in this book – if so, what purpose did that speech in FD serve if he knew nothing about love? – This has always frustrated me to no end. For all Ryder’s talk of ‘love’, touching a soul with it, and Syn not knowing what it means to be truly vulnerable he does not have a leg to stand on.2)	Ryder still does not do himself any favours with his dialogue and shallow affections, but I still have hope because I want to like him as much as he is still proving to do otherwise.3)	The volume of sex can prove to be a bit too gluttonous at times.4)	It’s said a few times that the culture of the Fae as a whole don’t love easily but I’m not sure I believe that. The Blood King and Queen do as does Kier and his wife, so it is more than possible. I think Ryder is falling for Synthia, but he just does not recognise it as such.5)	Every time I think Ryder can be converted, he does something to push me too far.6)	Some plot points were predictable, and I saw them coming before the characters did.7)	When Larissa’s soul comes to life for a night and allows Syn and Adam to have their goodbyes, her words are cryptic and predetermined as if there are things she knows and will happen eventually.8)	I’m now firm in my belief that Ryder is the Horde king.9)	As much as Syn claims that Ryder is not her keeper, she has the uncanny ability to always fall at his feet – literally.Favourite Quotes:“I’m not a fucking Fairy happy meal, Ryder!”“Looks like I’m getting that little fucking Fairy happy meal after all.”“I want you to feed me, Ryder, both of you.”“Syn, there is only one of me.”“So you say, but I don’t think the Gods would be so cruel to only make one of you, when two could be so much fun.”“You couldn’t handle two of me, Pet. You can hardly take me as is.”“I am not panicking. I don’t panic. Why would I panic?” Shit! I was so-o-o panicking!.“You were beautiful then as well, Pet. You are strong and stubborn, but that soul of yours is undeniably beautiful. I know, because I’ve felt it from the inside when you stole part of mine.”“Yes, I also love Adam. I love Alden, and I loved Larissa. I still love Larissa; she’s dead, but that doesn’t make the love I have for her just shut off. If you had ever known love, you’d know this. Nothing can force love to go away. You grow apart, or grow up, but it’s still there.”“You want me, ask me. Stop demanding it, expecting it, or eliminating the competition.”“You really are the most infuriating woman on this entire fucking planet!”“And you’re the most annoying fucking Fairy on this planet.”“No tricks, Syn,” Ryder growled.“Tricks are for kids, silly rabbit.”“I want that soul-torturing love. The kind where you’d die for one last kiss, one last touch.”“Death is only the beginning to another chapter of life.”“My beautiful Fairy.”“I hate when you call me beautiful.”“Don’t cry. Please. I can handle many things but you crying is not one of them.”“What’s your name?”“Satisfied, by a fucking Fairy.”“You gonna scale the walls and be my Prince Charming?”“No Pet, I’ll be your Prince Fucking Charming,” he smiled wickedly and disappeared.