I must confess my initial interest in Bee Ridgway's debut,The River of No Return, was superficial: I fell in love with the gorgeous cover. The more I read about the premise - a time-travelling historical romance, with an emphasis on the romance - the more dubious I became. Then there's the fact that it has been widely compared toThe Time Traveler's Wife, a book I tried three times to read without any success, andA Discovery of Witches, a book I finished but in many ways disliked. All in all, by the time I came to actually start reading this book I was a bit concerned I would end up hating it. It was a relief to find it was, in fact, very enjoyable.The story begins in 1815, with 22-year-old Julia Percy at her grandfather's bedside as he takes his last breaths. Julia believes his secret power - the manipulation of time - has died with him, and she dreads the arrival of her unpleasant cousin Eamon, the new earl. The scene then switches to Vermont in 2013, where Nick Davenant, the wealthy owner of several farms, lives a content yet complicated life. Nick is not what he seems: he is a member of the Guild, an organisation made up of those who, like Nick, have 'jumped' through time and found themselves in an age not their own. At the moment of his near-death in 1812, he was transported to 2003, and after a strange and painful period of adjustment, he has made peace with his unconventional existence. That is, until he receives a summons from the Guild which contradicts one of its own cardinal rules. Does this mean the principal law of the Guild - that there can be no return - could be broken too? And what connects Nick's summons to Julia's predicament back in the nineteenth century?After a slightly clumsy start which didn't give me a very positive impression of Nick's character, I soon found myself intrigued by the multi-layered plot, particularly the questions surrounding the Guild's operation. Between Nick's story, Julia's story, the background of the Guild and its shadowy enemies, and real-life historical events affecting the characters, there's a lot in this book, but it works - there is plenty of detail but it's all very fast-moving and never becomes dull: nor does it feel like the author is throwing too much information at you, impressive given that the amount that needs explaining about how all this works. As for the love story, it's pleasant enough, and (thankfully) believable. I was relieved to find that there was already an established connection between the two main characters, rather than it being one of these insta-love situations - the reader was easily able to imagine that, had none of the fantastical parts of the story actually happened, these two would probably have ended up together anyway. I did feel that Nick was being a bit too forward with Julia at times, given the strictures of the age (which he was obviously familiar with), but for the most part I liked them together, believed in their feelings for each other, and wanted them to be happy. Beyond this, I don't think I can discuss the plot in any further detail without significant spoilers. Suffice to say, I was carried along by the momentum of it and once I'd got to grips with the basic principles of the timey-wimey stuff and the dynamic between the characters, I was hooked.The one thing I will say, without actually spoiling anything, is that it's very obvious at the end that the stage is being set for a sequel. This can be read as a standalone book, and there's no cliffhanger as such, but there is plenty that could still be explored about this world and a number of questions which aren't answered comprehensively. I won't pretend this didn't disappoint me a little - I'd have preferred to think of this as a single novel, not the start of some fantasy romance series. Would I readThe River of No Return 2? Yes, I probably would, but I have a gut feeling it would be inferior to this one.I obviously can't say with absolute accuracy, but I don't think this book is really anything likeThe Time Traveler's Wife, excepting the obvious link of the time-travel theme. It is much more likeA Discovery of Witches- a romance between two characters with supernatural abilities, the juxtaposition of rich historical detail and the present day, a secret organisation that holds all the power, our hero and heroine used as pawns by greater forces - but it avoided all the things that marred that story (in other words, the male protagonist wasn't repulsive, the description wasn't too corny, and the romantic scenes didn't make me feel sick).The River of No Returnis, for me, best described as a good old-fashioned rollercoaster of an adventure story. The romance aspect is appealing but it doesn't overwhelm the plot to the detriment of other elements. It's a shame it doesn't look likely that this will be a standalone novel, as I'd like to read a totally different story from the same author, but - obviously - that wouldn't stop me from recommending this one. If anything about the idea of it strikes you as interesting, you'll probably love it.