RATING:3 stars to The High Mountain Court★ ★ ★“Never let anyone else tell you who you are, Remy, not even me. No one decides how bright you shine but you.”'Why did he have to speak to her like a friend and treat her like an enemy? One day she would see the ocean. One day she’d feel as mighty as those giant waves.'Forecasted as a must-read for fans of fantasy romance, the first Instalment toThe Five Crowns of Okrithsaga was a book I could not pass up. Circling some popular online spaces, I was successfully commandeered by the buoyancy of reader excitement.A.K. Mulford's The High Mountain Courttakes place post-siege, thirteen years after one of Okrith's most prosperous courts fell to a tyrant, overthrown by a terrible despot known as the Northern King. One who has grand ambitions for further conquer-ship. This high fantasy follows a nineteen-year-old witch, Remy, who's understood to be the last of her siblings to have survived the seizure and subjugation of her home and kingdom. Along with Remy, the entire population of the high mountain court were left to scatter to the outreaches of the surrounding courts for safety.In order to dismantle the true strength of the high mountain court, the Northern King not only slaughtered their nobility, but also murdered the Court's revered coven of Red Witches. The Red witches are now a dwindled race, a hunted race, a scarce people, and as far as Remy knows, she may very well be the last living of her kind. As such her identity as a Red Witch is a well-hidden secret, and it has been impressed upon her that it be nothing short of imperative to remain unseen and not worth the attention of eyes of interest. In the many years since, protected by her guardian Heather and friend Fenrin, Remy has toiled along the necessary path of domestic drudgery by serving in every backcountry tavern that has temporarily housed her and her friends. Much to her chagrin and greatest fear, her life on the run is about to be disturbed by a royal Fae prince and a potentially misinformed quest that's she's expected to be a part of.We have a debut novel inThe High Mountain Court, andA.K Mulfordhas written a relatively well-conceptualised setting, if not a well-developed opening volume for her debut series.Mulford'sworld building encourages an on-the-go integration. Readers learn of her world setting at a suitably intermittent pace. Her prose further employs a YA finish. As this story's group of Fae and witches globe-trot, we're regaled with the various - though secretive - parts and pieces of Remy's history, along with the social and cultural states and fates of each court. The author establishes her conceptual setting with enough definition, not at all an excessive display of world building, and I enjoyed the noticeable differences between the communities and Courts Remy encounters firsthand. The initial third division of the story was admittedly very interesting.It was during this time that I experienced a readable interest in our heroine, one who seemed equipped with a fierce determination, no matter the previous sequence of misdemeanours that forced her and her coven to flee for safety. I was caught up in the perspective of a scrappy young witch in a state of personal conflict, one who clearly felt the struggle of a life of great limit.I was excited to follow on for some surely exciting developments and character growth, but bar the inceptive portion of the story, the narrative developments that followed failed to follow through with continued interest. The investment i felt in Remy to begin with did eventually dissolve. All the early anticipation gathered was not equal to the actualised impact of what I discovered to be a story I felt rather challenged by. A story even, that perhaps felt challenged by itself to some form of unavailing.Of the understanding that the author aimed to integrate a number of familiar tropes and themes, Including that of fated love, found family, an enemies to lovers interpretation, identity and accepted fates, the narrative effort to develop character chemistry/growth, relationship building and integral plot moments was unexpectedly minimal.And as a result, I developed little more than a mild interest in the fates of pivotal characters. As such, the story follows the sequence of a fast-paced, moving plot with adequate integration of action, but does not engage the needed impact of well evolved-components. To elaborate, what were some interesting story elements were unsupported, and character feats felt rather challenged by a lack of developmental impact. The prose does make for ease of reading, but It doesn't quite take the time to flesh out character relationships and the deeper intimacies of Remy's understanding and place within a conflicted setting, which is arguably necessary when Introducing a group of characters we are told to have developed respective bonds. I enjoyed the attempt at integrating found family; Fenrin, Heather, Talhan, Briata and Carys were somewhat likeable but they weren't established with particularly interesting connections, and the effort of forming connections was plausible if not entirely well developed. For that reason, the interrelationships were noticeably underdeveloped; an assembly of characters herded together won't spontaneously fall into fast friendships. Like Remy's relationship with Hale, the friendship group could have used some work to cultivate core bonds.That being said, the connections to supporting cast members could have been overlooked if not for the fact thatThe High Mountain Court'score romance also fell short of effect.Consequently, the characterisation of both major and minor cast members wasn't as compelling, more so even because Remy's love interest models the pattern as a hero who did not sport a particularly interesting personality. The author does engage him with some basic characteristics; he's a comely (and naturally very handsome) prince, an unwanted heir, a reject to his court and people. He's said to have some history dallying with women in his earlier years, but he's also somewhat misunderstood, his hard-won efforts to prove himself dismissed at every turn.What Hale's role as a hero lacked was dimension, an arc that fell short of performance, and his role in the story felt rather prosaic. As we segue into the lay of the romance, I have to further commiserate a union that disenchanted more than it brewed a consistent appeal. Perhaps other shortcomings may have been overlooked to some degree if we were graced with a romantic relationship that equaled a prospective impact. The element of attraction between Hale and Remy does indeed move too quickly. The transition didn't sport adequate developmental phases for the enemies to lovers relationship between Hale and Remy. An instant attraction is at play, as is an instant resistance to that felt pull, but the element in caring in some fashion for each other transpired too quickly to take on a convincing quality. Instead of a slow-burning, slow-build familiarity that may have spoken much more to the forming of a connection, the transition was too swift for my liking, and as a result, underdeveloped. I couldn't put myself in a position that depicted a dislike and distanced dynamic to a heroine who then rather arbitrarily felt rejected, deeply hurt and affected by Hale in ways the development didn't support. The dynamic shift was rather sudden and immediate, in a way that did not grant our couple a convincing 'togethering'. To add on, the fated mates trope reads as more of a construction; the pull is felt on many occasions by both Hale and Remy; they're drawn to each other, develop instinctive feelings rather quickly and all the 'right moves' and 'right feelings' were made. But the dynamic ultimately reads without depth, and I felt myself desiring muchmoredepth within their relationship. Much more depth overall.I've been privy to many stories that engage the trope of fated mates, most of which suffer from the fatal mistake of bypassing the construction of an actualised romantic development by neglecting to cultivate the work needed to establish a connection between two respective romantic interests. I don't necessarily agree that a destined bond alone qualifies the legitimacy; a romance takes time, effort and trust. The representation here was a little more amenable but Remy and Hale's romance still felt rather unexplored. Let's talk a bit about this story's heroine though. We're faced with Remy's deepest inner conflict through that which she struggles quite greatly to face.She's hidden away for many years, from her duty, her power and herself, and I do feel that this was represented coherently through Remy's headspace. If not to its fullness, then it offers us some form of the character growth we were hoping to witness. Her coming to self almost becomes her coming of age. But stepping into her strength, her power and her place will require touching some deeper inner truths that Remy has not confronted with the full force of her will since she was a little girl. Facing those barriers, and the grief and despair she has long since carried, requires her to face her identity. She's confronted with the long-felt understanding of her own inaction, even by necessity it is a hard truth to acknowledge.The loss of her family has roots even Remy hasn't touched.Victimised by her losses, by the pain of all that had been taken from her, and she forgot how to take for herself; all that she could have been, all she could have done, and her inertia and passivity have haunted her in tandem. The grief of living a humble life on the run in full knowing of what her people had sacrificed in blood and lives lost weighs heavily on young Remy's shoulders. The entrance of four Fae pulls her into a quest that challenges that capacity for action and bravery.Admittedly, Remy's arc does leave much to be desired, and I would have preferred the felt impact of that growth as opposed to following along with the milder impression of a growth arc.I carry no qualm with writers who may find inspiration in alternative - and similar - volumes of fantasy fiction, butThe High Mountain Courtbore too many similarities to various existing fantasy romance novels. Whether it may indeed have been unscripted and coincidental, comparability becomes a natural outcome, and I believe the author could have channeled her process with more originality. I liked the idea of displaced royals but I wanted to experience a story that felt more unto itself as opposed to a piece of fiction that felt imitative in places.Although my interest did regrettably fall to suspension, the story and the author make a wonderful effort with this debut. I do credit some of the more unexpected events and twists of the story as we shift into the latter stages of the book.A.K. Mulford'spotential as a writer is certainly perceptible and she has produced a novel of decent form. Readers looking for a less elaborate fantasy romance, and are amenable to milder executions of character arcs will enjoy this addition to the genre.A debut starter of easy reading, if not one of consistent thrill and thrall. I did fall to the experience of building little else but mild curiosity for the escalating events, and this did unexpectedly take me a long time to make my way through as a story, butMulforddoes promise skill as a new talent and I'm sure readers will perceive the same potential inThe High Mountain Court. While the story makes good use of the present and purposeful as this band of characters traverse the lay of Okrith's courts, the same, as aforementioned, cannot be said for this story's central romance. My experience felt disconnected from a sense of depth, and emulsified into combination of pros and cons, but the final fifteen percent of the book did effectively bring me back into the story to some degree, and essentially performed something of a restorative act to my well-waned attention. I did enjoy the narrative tone and the writing style, however. A venture-some gambit of witches, Fae, magical relics, destined love, a fallen kingdom, divided courts, conquest and a fight against dominion as our central crew navigate the courts of Okrith.'Help lead this world into a better future, Remy. Be brave and kind and strong and clever, as you’ve always been.” Heather’s lips quirked up. “Be all the things I tried to teach you to be, but most of all, my Remy, be loved.”Content Warning:general warnings for blood, violence and gore. Dead bodies A past massacre which resulted in many past deaths. Current deaths. Ownership of witches. Adult content Including sexual intimacy scenes.EXTRA THOUGHTS (WILL CONTAIN SPOILERS!)1) The final 15 percent did bring me back into the story. A certain death, however, did take me out of it again once I was again faced with the story's flaws. Raffiel's entrance was a form of revival for the story and my interest, but that he dies did feel like a wasted opportunity. Since the story didn't sport the most fleshed out characterisation I think it was such a lost opportunity to end his life. It was at this point that the story both picked up speed and Inspired a second bout of investment that couldn't be summoned throughout. I could understand why the author went this route for the sake of Remy's arc, but when it hadn't been my experience to feel attached to any one character, I believe he could have brought something to the plot in a surprising way.Want to read more reviews? Visit my blog!↓V.L. Book Reviews