“Your fatal flaw is personal loyalty, Percy. You do not know when it is time to cut your losses. To save a friend, you would sacrifice the world. In a hero of the prophecy, that is very, very dangerous.”Imagine your biggest flaw is that you’re too loyal to your friends and would sacrifice yourself if it meant saving them.I could never be as humble as Percy.I’m still pinching myself over not having read this series before. I remember some mutuals I had here in 2016 were startingThe Hidden Oracle, and I had been set on starting the series. I don’t know what stopped me. However, I still appreciate being in my 20s and starting this now because following along the journey at this time, without worrying about books not being published yet, is relieving. Every time I’ve turned the last page of the previous books I’ve read from this series, I’m already picking up the next book. I don’t know how some of y’all read this when you were younger and kept up with all the characters and plots cause I keep needing to remind myself who is who.Still,The Titan’s Cursehad whatThe Sea of Monstersdidn’t: humor. I felt like Percy and the rest of the gang didn’t have their authentic voice in the previous book. But here, even though this story is more serious in every way, the author still manages to add sprinkles of humor and lightheartedness to show the intended audience of this story. The characters are still kids, and to me, a middle-grade novel needs to show their personalities that way. Percy is now 14, but he still has a brain developing, insecurities take over, and he makes unintentional bad decisions. Yet, we can’t help but root for him as he tries his best to save those closest to him, all while causing ruckus and havoc everywhere he goes. He’s fun, adventurous, optimistic, and a kid at heart with wit, joy, and a free spirit. I love his courageous attitude and how he’s growing into a strong young man willing to do anything to save the world. I love his determinant nature, never backing down and without a fight. I love his loving heart and how he still craves his father’s praise. I love his growing wisdom, resilience, and brave little soul. I love him and am sad about his willingness to give up for those who don’t appreciate him enough. I don’t know if this is the saddest installment of this series or what, but shoutout to Rick Riordan for making me feel sad over this 14-year-old demigod.And while the lightheartedness of the book is still relevant, the book does become more serious. Percy and his friends know the quests are becoming more serious, venturing closer to a potential and future war between the Titans and the Olympians. With the prophecy of one of the children from the three gods holding the world in their hands becoming closer and closer, the people await more clues as their futures will become reality. It becomes more difficult for them to follow along, and as they get older, their lives become more heavy. Annabeth spends most of the time out of the book because of a fight, and Percy is set on saving her. We meet many more new people, as well as continue seeing old faces, good and bad: Thalia, Zeus’s daughter, who we learned about in book 1; Luke and his growing army of bringing back Kronos; Nico and Bianca di Angelo, who we learn are Hades’ children, who he had with a mortal woman before the Oath was made; the Goddess of Hunt, Artemis, as well one of her best Hunter’s, Zoë Nightshade; the Goddess of Beauty, Aphrodite; the God of the Sun, Apollo. We have our usual God of Wine, Dionysus, who I sometimes want to slap in the face, and other times, I can’t help but sigh because of how relatable he is. There is also Rachel, who I am curious about and hope to meet again in the rest of the series. The author continues to excel in creating a fascinating but entirely fun cast of characters. Full of trust, love, betrayals, and friendship, we continue finding more secrets with the kids. It isn’t as whimsical as other books in this genre, but the stories have still provided entertainment, creating a world full of different twists that you will spot early on if you’re familiar with Greek mythology. However, the author adds his twists to it, making the read easy to follow, read, and analyze. With journey after journey, there is not a single moment of silence the characters have, yet we, as the readers, appreciate this as there is also something about to happen.With that being said, I do wish we could have had a little more backstory on Thalia’s return.The Sea of Monstersended with her introducing herself as the daughter of Zeus, yet when we open this story up, we’re suddenly thrown into her, Percy and Annabeth getting a ride from Sally Jackson, Percy’s mother, to Camp Half-Blood. There was no explanation of how Thalia’s return was taken, which made the timeline a little rusty. I would have appreciated some explanation to see how everyone took this to get a better understanding of her friendship with everyone. I also can’t lie and say that I was a big fan of her because she aggravated me a few times. My heart has been breaking for Percy since the first book, with how he was bullied by Clarrise and her goons, as well as Nancy and her minions. Then he tries his best to save one of his best friends, and along the way, he’s continuously insulted by Thalia and Zoë. To an extent, I understand where they were coming from, but other times, I wish they could have taken a chill pill. Too serious for my liking, not trustworthy enough, and hesitant. They both had a sort of leadership to them that was probably supposed to show them off as diligent and robust, but I couldn’t bring myself always to care. My heart stands with Percy, always.I am growing to love these characters more and more. With the Second Titan War approaching (it’s obvious), I can’t help but feel nothing but anticipation. Seeing these kids grow up in their way has been exciting to witness. Every scene gives a new, promising future, showing the growing potential of all the characters. I’ve also adored seeing how their feelings grow. I’m sure we’re all aware of Percy and Annabeth becoming a couple in the future, and it’s delightful to see the small things in their friendship. Not to mention, Grover has shown himself to be a trustworthy friend, someone Percy can rely on. I can’t wait to see how The Battle of the Labyrinth goes!“The most dangerous flaws are those which are good in moderation,” she said. “Evil is easy to fight. Lack of wisdom…that is very hard indeed.”