Reviewed by:Rabid ReadsNOTICE:this reread is in preparation for finally biting the bullet and reading book 14. That means I HAVE NOT read book 14 yet. Please be mindful of this in the comments, both for me and for others who may or may not have progressed past this point in the series. Thank you.It's hard for me to review this book, andonlythis book, objectively, b/c:1. WoT is my favorite high fantasy series. Ever.2. I've read the first eight books seven or eight times, maybe more (*whispers* I honestly don't know how many times I've read them). DON'T JUDGE.The first time, I was nineteen. Ish. I read all of the available books, back-to-back, schoolwork be damned.Then I read them again.YES, really.And I loved them even more the second time.I thrive on detail, you see. And Robert Jordan was a master of details. I caught so many previously missed foreshadowings, clevernesses, nuances, etc. that had flown right over my head the first time.It was spectacular.Like when Thom, Mat, and Rand jumped aboard Bayle Domon's ship, and Thom spun a tale for the captain, explaining how they happened to come upon his ship with Trollocs (nasty man-beast things) on their heels:Now it just so happened that he had earlier learned the location of Aridhol from a map given him many years ago by a dying friend in Illian whose life he had once saved . . .B/c didn't know it at the time, but Domon is an . . . wait for it . . .Illianer. *tips hat*The whole series is FULL of things like that.Rand al'Thor, Mat Cauthon, and Perrin Aybara are three young men on the cusp of adulthood. They live in Emond's Field, where they have small village concerns and small village lives.But when the previously mentioned Trollocs:attack their village, it forces them to accept that such creatures of the Dark One are not mere stories made up to scare children. And when the two strangers who arrived just prior to the attack turn out to be an Aes Sedai (wielder of the One Power) and her Warder (warrior/protector), the manboys learn that a small village life is not in the cards for them (HA!) and are forced to leave their homes to protect their families from the Great Lord of the Dark's minions, who won't stop until all three are in their master's grasp.Jordan does an excellent job of keeping you guessing: which manboy is the Dark One after and why? Is it really just the one, or is it all of them? If it is all of them, are they all equally important, or do the degrees vary? WHAT DOES IT ALL MEAN?!B/c this is not a simple story.And one thing wedoknow is that Rand, Perrin, and Mat areta'veren, and as such they unwittingly pull others into their quest: a so-much-more-than-a-simple gleeman whose past regrets dictate his future actions, a young Ogier whose curiosity and wanderlust led him to leave his peacefulsteddinghome to see the things he's spent his life reading about, Rand's sweetheart who refuses to be left behind and longs to become an Aes Sedai herself, and the village Wisdom who feels compelled to both protect the young people from Aes Sedai machinations and also to break through the Warder's walls.Amongmanyothers.Each and every one of them vital in their own way.Also vital are the multitudes of seemingly random observations and commentary that in reality are the foundations of awesomeness to come.THESE BOOKS . . . layers and layers andstill morelayers. It's truly incredible.And despite having readThe Eye of the Worldso many times that I practically have it memorized, I have yet to grow immune to the very real and heartbreaking struggles that many of the characters face.Whether it's Rand's terrible journey from his farm in the Westwood to Emond's Field, dragging his injured father to safety, Loial's treesong to preserve a small part of his Treebrother's sanctuary in the Blight, or Nynaeve's yearning for a man bound to a never-ending battle that he cannot win . . . I still feel it. *rubs fist over heart*Deeply.And if you are unaffected by Moiraine's tale of the long fallen Manetheren:"But some did not flee. First in a trickle, then a river, then a flood, men went, not to safety, but to join the army fighting for their land. Shepherds with bows, and farmers with pitchforks, and woodsmen with axes. Women went, too, shouldering what weapons they could find and marching side by side with their men. No one made that journey who did not know they would never return. But it was their land. It had been their fathers', and it would be their children's, and they went to pay the price for it. Not a step of ground was given up until it was soaked with blood."then you have only a black, shriveled thing in your chest cavity.SO. As daunting as this series may be (and I will never deny that itisdaunting) . . . if you are a lover of fantasy, and you haven't read Robert Jordan'sWheel of Time, you are doing yourself a major disservice.The Eye of the Worldhas the best prologue I've ever read IN MY LIFE, so I challenge you to read it. It's just a prologue. And if you don't feel the need to see what happens next, then hey . . . all you're out is the 15 minutes it took you to read it. ALSO, no one is holding a gun to your head. There's no law that says once you start, you can't stop until THE END. Take your time. Enjoy it. Or don't. Whatever. But my recommendation is that you do.These are the books that spawned my love of reading fantastical things as a adult.My other reviews for this series:The Great Hunt (Wheel of Time, #2) by Robert JordanThe Dragon Reborn (Wheel of Time, #3) by Robert JordanThe Shadow Rising (Wheel of Time, #4) by Robert JordanThe Fires of Heaven (Wheel of Time, #5) by Robert JordanLord of Chaos (Wheel of Time, #6) by Robert JordanA Crown of Swords (Wheel of Time, #7) by Robert JordanThe Path of Daggers (Wheel of Time, #8) by Robert JordanWinter's Heart (Wheel of Time, #9) by Robert JordanCrossroads of Twilight (Wheel of Time, #10) by Robert JordanNew Spring (Wheel of Time, #0) by Robert JordanHighlights:1. EPIC prologue from Age of Legends.2. List of Gleeman's Tales (b/c always trying to figure out who Mat and Perrinwere:" . . . the entireAptarigine Cycle. Tales of Artur Paendrag Tanreall, Artur Hawkwing, Artur the High King, who once ruled all the lands from the Aiel Waste to the Aryth Ocean, and even beyond. Wondrous stories of strange people and strange lands, of the Green Man, of Warders and Trollocs, of Ogier and Aiel.The Thousand Tales of Anla, the Wise Counselor. ‘Jaem the Giant-Slayer.’How Susa Tamed Jain Farstrider. ‘Mara and the Three Foolish Kings.'"“Tell us about Lenn,” Egwene called. “How he flew to the moon in the belly of an eagle made of fire. Tell about his daughter Salya walking among the stars.”“Old stories, those,” Thom Merrilin said, and abruptly he was juggling three colored balls with each hand. “Stories from the Age before the Age of Legends, some say. Perhaps even older. But I have all stories, mind you now, of Ages that were and will be. Ages when men ruled the heavens and the stars, and Ages when man roamed as brother to the animals. Ages of wonder, and Ages of horror. Ages ended by fire raining from the skies, and Ages doomed by snow and ice covering land and sea. I have all stories, and I will tell all stories. Tales of Mosk the Giant, with his Lance of fire that could reach around the world, and his wars with Elsbet, the Queen of All. Tales of Materese the Healer, Mother of the Wondrous Ind.”The balls now danced between Thom’s hands in two intertwining circles. His voice was almost a chant, and he turned slowly as he spoke, as if surveying the onlookers to gauge his effect. “I will tell you of the end of the Age of Legends, of the Dragon, and his attempt to free the Dark One into the world of men. I will tell of the Time of Madness, when Aes Sedai shattered the world; of the Trolloc Wars, when men battled Trollocs for rule of the earth; of the War of the Hundred Years, when men battled men and the nations of our day were wrought. I will tell the adventures of men and women, rich and poor, great and small, proud and humble.The Siege of the Pillars of the Sky. ‘How Goodwife Karil Cured Her Husband of Snoring.’King Darith and the Fall of the House of— ”3. Tam's "fever talk." *wails*4.MANETHEREN.5.“The rose petal floats on water,” Lan recited softly. “The kingfisher flashes above the pond. Life and beauty swirl in the midst of death.”“Yes,” Agelmar said. “Yes. That one has always symbolized the whole of it to me, too.” The two men bowed their heads to one another.Poetry out of Lan? The man was an onion . . .6.Lord of the Seven Towers.7. BEST SETTING DESCRIPTION EVER:Mile by mile the corruption of the Blight became more apparent. Leaves covered the trees in ever greater profusion, but stained and spotted with yellow and black, with livid red streaks like blood poisoning. Every leaf and creeper seemed bloated, ready to burst at a touch. Flowers hung on trees and weeds in a parody of spring, sickly pale and pulpy, waxen things that appeared to be rotting while Rand watched. When he breathed through his nose, the sweet stench of decay, heavy and thick, sickened him; when he tried breathing through his mouth, he almost gagged. The air tasted like a mouthful of spoiled meat. The horses’ hooves made a soft squishing as rotten-ripe things broke open under them.Forsaken:1.“I am called Aginor,” the old one said. “And he is Balthamel.""The seals weaken, Aes Sedai. Like Ishamael, we walk the world again, and soon the rest of us will come."Two down, eleven to go.Foresight:1.He had no choice but to go, but he would come back to Emond’s Field, however far or long this journey was.2."I whispered in Artur Hawkwing’s ear, and the length and breadth of the land Aes Sedai died. I whispered again, and the High King sent his armies across the Aryth Ocean, across the World Sea, and sealed two dooms.The doom of his dream of one land and one people, and a doom yet to come."3.“What do you see when you look at . . . the rest of us?”“All sorts of things,” Min said, with a grin as if she knew what he really wanted to ask. “The War . . . ah . . .Master Andra has seven ruined towers around his head, and a babe in a cradle holding a sword, and . . .” She shook her head. “Men like him—you understand?—always have so many images they crowd one another.The strongest images around the gleeman are a man—not him—juggling fire, and the White Tower, and that doesn’t make any sense at all for a man.The strongest things I see about the big, curly-haired fellow are a wolf, and a broken crown, and trees flowering all around him. And the other one—a red eagle, an eye on a balance scale, a dagger with a ruby, a horn, and a laughing face. There are other things, but you see what I mean. This time I can’t make up or down out of any of it.” She waited then, still grinning, until he finally cleared his throat and asked.“What about me?”Her grin stopped just short of outright laughter. “The same kind of things as the rest. A sword that isn’t a sword, a golden crown of laurel leaves, a beggar’s staff, you pouring water on sand, a bloody hand and a white-hot iron, three women standing over a funeral bier with you on it, black rock wet with blood—"“All right,” he broke in uneasily. “You don’t have to list it all.”“Most of all, I see lightning around you, some striking at you, some coming out of you. I don’t know what any of it means, except for one thing. You and I will meet again.” She gave him a quizzical look, as if she did not understand that either.Lan: Malkier stuff.Thom: his nephew.Perrin: wolf = wolfbrother, or maybe Hopper if it's supposed to be a specific wolf. No idea about the broken crown, unless he's going to be the king of Manetheren, and trees flowering . . . *sobs* if you don't know what that's about, I'm not saying . . .Mat: red eagle = Manetheren, still no clue about the eye/balance scale thing (unless it comes up later, and I've forgotten. Which is entirely possible), dagger is dagger from Shadar Logoth, horn is Horn of Valere, and laughing face . . . probably related to his role as a "trickster."Rand:Callandor, Crown of Swords(from Illian?), don't know/can't remember about the beggar's staff, water in the Waste, bloody hand and white hot iron . . . not sure, three women and funeral bier, etc., again, if you don't know, I'm not telling.4.I believe in tradition, I do, but look what it got us last time.Luc dead in the Blight before he was ever anointed First Prince of the Sword, and Tigraine vanished—run off or dead—when it came time for her to take the throne."5.“I’ve just remembered something, Aes Sedai, something I have always wanted to ask an Aes Sedai if ever I met one, since you know many things and have great libraries in Tar Valon, and now I have, of course, and . . . may I?”“If you make it brief,” she said curtly.“Brief,” he said as though wondering what it meant. “Yes. Well. Brief.There was a man came to Stedding Shangtai a little time back. This was not unusual in itself, at the time, since a great many refugees had come to the Spine of the World fleeing what you humans call the Aiel War.” Rand grinned. A little time back; twenty years, near enough. “He was at the point of death, though there was no wound or mark on him. The Elders thought it might be something Aes Sedai had done”—Loial gave Moiraine an apologetic look—“since as soon as he was within the stedding he quickly got well. A few months. One night he left without a word to anyone, simply sneaked away when the moon was down.” He looked at Moiraine’s face and cleared his throat again. “Yes. Brief. Before he left, he told a curious tale which he said he meant to carry to Tar Valon. He said the Dark One intended to blind the Eye of the World, and slay the Great Serpent, kill time itself. The Elders said he was as sound in his mind as in his body, but that was what he said. What I have wanted to ask is, can the Dark One do such a thing? Kill time itself? And the Eye of the World? Can he blind the eye of the Great Serpent? What does it mean?”Jain Farstrider?? B/c this:"Jain Farstrider, a hero,” he twisted the word to a sneer, “whom I painted like a fool and sent to the Ogier thinking he was free of me."6. Green Man:“A Wolfbrother! Do the old times truly walk again then?”“Strange clothes you wear, Child of the Dragon. Has the Wheel turned so far? Do the People of the Dragon return to the first Covenant? But you wear a sword. That is neither now nor then.”Musings:1.Only, how did he tell his father that the man who had apparently vanished into air wore a cloak the wind did not touch?There are a LOT of turning points in this series. Probably thousands. But this one . . . even as early in the story as it is, knowing what we know about Tamthat he fought in the Aiel War, how differently could things have gone if Randhadtold him?2.“What could be worse than wolves killing sheep, and men?” Cenn Buie demanded. Others muttered in support.Oh, the naiveté . . .3.The dead fell like autumn leaves . . .It's pretty; I like it.4.“From Saldaea, eh?” Elyas said when she was done.Perrin nodded. “That’s right. We thought about seeing Maradon first. I’d surely like to see the King. But the capital city would be the first place our fathers would look.”Saldaea has a QUEEN, you dolt.5.“We used to dig up bones in the Sand Hills,” Rand said slowly. “Strange bones. There was part of a fish—I think it was a fish—as big as this boat, once."Hmmm . . . if the Two Rivers is part of what was once Manetheren, why would part of it have been underneath a body of water so deep it could support the lives of fish as big as ships? Manetherendrelle means "waters of the mountain home," after all . . .It makes me laugh:1.“We left notes,” Mat said. “For our families. They’ll find them in the morning. Rand,my mother thinks Tar Valon is the next thing to Shayol Ghul.” He gave a little laugh to show he did not share her opinion. It was not very convincing.2.Thom grimaced. “The fall of the Stone will be one of the major proofs that the Dragon has been reborn.May the Stone stand till I am dust.”3.Nynaeve pushed at Lan’s arm again; it still did not move, and she decided to ignore it.4.When he asked, not thinking, for “The Tinker Has My Pots,” they fell all over themselves laughing.