Shannon has improved her story telling and made an even more amazing original world building. The characters are still really awesome, my love for them has grown even more. This really is a series where I’m so emotionally invested in while reading that I’m almost screaming at the book; COME ON! STAND UP! YOU CAN DO THIS! KEEP GOING! O NO YOU DIDN’T! YOU STUPID **$%&! LEAVE HER ALONE! I just think this book isn’t a five star read because of the slow plot, the getting used to yet another world, and some unrealistic illogical scenes.Spoiler warning for the whole“The Bone Season”series!!In “The Bone Season” the book ends with Paige and the other survivors going back to London on a train after escaping Sheol I. This book starts where the previous book left of and I really liked that there wasn’t a time lapse between the first and the second book. It was fun to read about the escape and I liked seeing Paige save them in another dangerous situation. The tension is really high.“Are they going to make it? Where would the train stop?”But I do think that the events are a bit dull.It was a bit too easy just stepping on a train and riding to London.Why isn’t this train stopped by the Raphaim? There must be some sort of control system? Also the break into The Tower and escape from it had me like“No way, that’s way too easy!”Thought it was supposed to be the most feared and most guarded prison or something. And they just walked in?!But If you compare the exciting beginning from The Mime Order to the info dumbing beginning of The Bone Season you can see the improvement.It was action packed, exciting, clear and well written, although I still see some improvement points.After the escape from the train and then The Tower the whole story, unfortunately, collapses. Paige is the most wanted criminal in Scion and she needs to stay in hiding for a while. So she stays in motels and waits until Nick brings her food and goes over the happened events and what to do now. These pages where realistic but not necessary to be in this book.I hated reading Paige depressing thoughts and her going over previous scenes I already read.Then Paige makes up her mind and goes back to the Seven Dials, because it is her best shot for survival and she has run out of money. I didn’t like this. Jaxon treats every single person as dirt and Paige deserved something better after what she had been through. Also, didn’t there just a war happen? Aren’t there Raphaims making plans for a new Bone Season? Isn’t London still in danger? Paige just continues with her normal life in The Seven Seals and though that was interesting I found it a strange turn of events.And after the epic action filled first book it felt boring.I find it a strange order that in the first book we get thrown into a story about a girl we know nothing about and got to meet this crazy world (Sheol I) and we go through this strange rollercoaster action filled plot. And then in book two we got to ‘meet’ the main character and her world. Because of this the action and plot completely stopped, the tension slipped away and with that my attention.Ok in book one we figure out one of the two complicated systems/worlds, Sheol I. But with Paige being back in LondonI was doomed to learn the other one to.This one is even more complicated, withall the districts and gangs and mime-lords and mollers.I was annoyed after reading a first book in a series that I still needed to learn things about the world. I would have liked to have figured it out in book one and just relax and keep on reading without scrolling back and forth to the glossary, The Seven Orders of Clairvoyants and The Assembly of Unnatural. But once again after I got used to it, I loved the world building.It was super cleaver how Shannon came up with this structured but corrupt dark underworld of London.I LOVED to read about it, and to figure this crazy world out step by step!The writing style is also improved. I still like the way that it feels like Paige talked to me,like she is telling ME a story.Shannon writes really vivid and fluently, what makes it easy and fun to read.What I was a little scared about, because of the kiss in the first book, was that thiswould turn into some twisted spin of off Romeo and Juliette.And I kind of think that did happen. Though they don’t really love each other they have this complicated ‘something more than friends’ hang above their heads and I hated that.I would have liked them to stay master and apprentice and then grow closer and become equals.I was annoyed by all the feelings but also the feelings Paige didn’t have. I would be heartbroken if I would love Warden but I can’t be with him because I’m human. But Paige is like well that’s how life goes… I just didn’t like their talks and interactions as much as the first book. This love thing just doesn’t work in this story for me.Other than that tiny detail I LOVED PAIGE. She is such a badass. I love EVERY decision she makes, every ally she takes and every friendship she makes.I love the growth she makes from Jaxons moller to this badass black moth queen.I also loved the Seven Seals and to read about them, NOT IN A FLASHBACK!I liked that every Seal has his/her own personality, and that they made that work for years surprised me.Eliza is so cute and innocent, I love her. Same for Nick he is the rock Paige needs to lean on once in a while. I really liked to read how this trust builds and the friendship that grows stronger. Danice doesn’t appear as much in this book as I would have liked her to, but she is like this crazy scientist you just have to love (I loved that she choose Paige over Jaxon in the end that was unexpected for me). I really liked Zeke’s relationship with Nick although we don’t read much about it. I don’t know what to think of Zeke though… Nadine is this irritating annoying character, she follows Jaxon around and does everything he asks. She’s hypocritical and doesn’t have a backbone. And Jaxon… I still kind of love him, I understand his motives and his character. I’m so curious what he will do in the next book. (Paige should have killed him).Maybe going into the previous book blind wasn’t a bad thing, all the twists and turns came unexpected and that held the excitement high. But in this book I knew Paige was going to gather forces to go after the Sargas and that that would be a challenge. So I think nothing new happened and nothing that surprising.I missed the twists and turns from the previous book.The twist who Ivy really was, was cool and unexpected but there were not that many other great twists. The one with Jaxon and the other mime lords and queens I saw coming, furthermore there weren’t any.The plot was really slow, but not dying.There were some action filled scenes but they also didn’t live up to those in the previous book. And in between these scenes Paige just kind of lives her life while trying to find out who killed Hector and what the heck is going on. I found that boring. Also some events where just kind of random and strange… Things just happen out of nowhere and then I don’t even remember how or why because it is so bizarre. Like when this random guy appeared when Paige, Zeke, Elisa and Nick where talking in this forest, and they just let him open this portal so they all get almost killed by an Emim. Another random thing was Paige crawling to this tunnel and then just happen to come across these people that she can eavesdrop on and just happens to hear these big secrets. The events where enjoyable but why they happened was kind of strange.It needed a bigger and more excited preamble and sometimes more explanation.I feel like this whole book builds up to the mêlee, and wow that was action packed and vivid. The writing there is so beautiful it comes to life. Shannon can write action very well.I loved the battles between Paige and all the other contestants. I loved seeing Jaxon in action. I loved to see more from the other Mime lords and queens. I just loved this whole Mêlee!In my opinion the Mêlee scene could have been a little longer though!The only things I have to comment on is that it goes rather quick and easy for Paige and Jaxon to become the only two left alive. If there is a complot to kill Paige first, then why don’t they go after her before. Another thing I didn’t get was; Paige can kill someone by going into their minds and kill them within a matter of seconds. So why go to all the trouble, the blood and almost get killed a few times when with a single push of her ghost she can kill them? Yeah she wants to give them a spectacle to look at, but surviving is priority number one right?!The battle between Jaxon and Paige was AMAZING!I really enjoyed reading this. And I was really cheering her on! I loved how defeated Jaxon was at the end! I also really like it how the title comes back at the end of this book, because the whole book I was like what the heck is this Mime Order thing.And that’s how you end a book! DAMN!(Stupid cliffhanger)A book I was really REALLY excited about came out while I was reading this, so I put this book on hold for a few days. But I missed Paige and this world so much, while reading that other book! How can I survive a year waiting for the next book,The Song Rising! NEED IT NOW!!!(Still don’t know how Shannon is going to write another 5 books in this series though)