If this is not your first Becky Chambers book, you know what to expect. Ever since her first novelThe Long Way to a Small, Angry Planetshe’s been writing what I can only call“comfort science fiction/ cozypunk”, showing the worlds where you would really love to live, the worlds that learned from mistakes of the past and moved on in better directions, the worlds mostly inhabited by genuinely nice people, with everything having a feeling of an unironically happy hippie commune, complete with earnest conversations about life and its meaning.And that’s what we get here, in a tiny contemplative novella whose dedication simply states,“For anybody who could use a break.”“This had been the way of things since the Transition, when the people had redivided the surface of their moon. Fifty percent of Panga’s single continent was designated for human use; the rest was left to nature, and the ocean was barely touched at all. It was a crazy split, if you thought about it: half the land for a single species, half for the hundreds of thousands of others. But then, humans had a knack for throwing things out of balance. Finding a limit they’d stick to was victory enough.”It’s a story of a utopia, a planet where humanity left behind the Factory Age and moved on to sustainable and highly spiritual (as opposed to dogmatically religious) life in harmony with nature, with dwellings made of biodegradable materials, half a planet left for wilderness with which you do not interfere, and existence oftea monkswho travel from scenic village to scenic village setting pop-up tea shops where one can drink their sorrows away with herbal teas.Because people will still have existential crises and will get hit with wanderlust even in the most inconvenient times.“I’m tired,” Dex said softly. “My work doesn’t satisfy me like it used to, and I don’t know why. I was so sick of it that I did a stupid, dangerous thing, and now that I’ve done it, I don’t know what to do next. I don’t know what I thought I’d find out here, because I don’t know what I’m looking for. I can’t stay here, but I’m scared about going back and having that feeling pick right back up where it left off. I’m scared, and I’m lost, and I don’t know what to do.”In this world a long time ago robots somehow gained consciousness and parted ways with humanity to live in the wilderness, respecting each other’s choices and agency. The departure of robots apparently becomes a catalyst for the betterment of humanity. And now for the first time a human tea monkDex(on a quest fueled by ennui and a longing for purpose) and a robotSplendid Speckled Mosscap(on a journey to find out about humans and what makes them tick) meet and engage in philosophical discussions and debates and lay foundations for a beautiful friendship.This entire novella is a philosophical dialogue in the setting of ecological paradise, a cozy version of Plato’s symposium held in the wilderness with some tea.“You’re an animal, Sibling Dex. You are not separate or other. You’re an animal. And animals have no purpose. Nothing has a purpose. The world simply is. If you want to do things that are meaningful to others, fine! Good! So do I! But if I wanted to crawl into a cave and watch stalagmites with Frostfrog for the remainder of my days, that would also be both fine and good. You keep asking why your work is not enough, and I don’t know how to answer that, because it is enough to exist in the world and marvel at it. You don’t need to justify that, or earn it. You are allowed to just live. That is all most animals do.”This is not a story of survival or conflict or discovery. It is a story of dissatisfaction even with the most comfortable life in the most ideal world imaginable, the world which by any definition is a utopia — and not because of any inherent flaws in the utopia, not because every utopia harbors within it the seeds of dystopia, butpurely because human spirit gets restless sometimes even in the best of circumstances, even in the world that I would give my left ovary to inhabit.You see, living in our current world that is not quite moving towards the lovely green utopia of Chambers’ planet, I do tend to view the world through less rose-tinted glasses, focusing more on survival and security as priorities and sidelining the finer things in life. But here we are a bit past that, those lucky bastards. Here they can afford to focus on spiritual pleasure and not on the basic needs.“Dex nodded at the ruined factory. “And the people who made places like this weren’t at fault either—at least, not at first. They just wanted to be comfortable. They wanted their children to live past the age of five. They wanted everything to stop being so fucking hard. Any animal would do the same—and they do, if given the chance.”Yes, the questions Chambers raises are those “first world problems” that I’m usually the first one to want to shrug off — but they are very important to the human nature. When you have the luxury of having your basic needs met and comfort of security in life, the nagging feelings of dissatisfaction and desire for purpose or fulfillment or wanderlust will come to the forefront, because, as Dex notes, humans need more than just focus on survival alone — once that basic need has been fulfilled.“Survival alone isn’t enough for most people. We’re more than surviving now. We’re thriving. We take care of each other, and the world takes care of us, and we take care of it, and around it goes. And yet, that’s clearly not enough, because there’s a need for people like me. No one comes to me hungry or sick. They come to me tired, or sad, or a little lost. It’s like you said about the … the ants. And the paint. You can’t just reduce something to its base components. We’re more than that. We have wants and ambitions beyond physical needs. That’s human nature as much as anything else.”All in all, it’s a quietly optimistic, comforting, heartfelt book, focusing on the nuances of human soul in a very good world inhabited by very good people and robots. To complete the ambiance, I would have needed a hot cocoa and a warm cozy blanket on a pleasantly rainy day — but we are in the middle of a hot dry fiery California summer, so there goes that pleasant atmosphere.————And yet some things kept nagging at me, aided by that ever-present cynicism that tends to pop up at inconvenient moments.One was the robot character, Mosscap. It’s pretty indistinguishable from a human, with the same everything — speech patterns, logic, and even struggles with math and numbers. The subtitle of this new series - Monk and Robot — implies differences, and Mosscap itself states that“We don’t have to fall into the same category to be of equal value”— but to me they were reading as almost indistinguishable in voice and behavior, and that left me a bit unsatisfied.The other issue was the ending — or the lack thereof, because this novella really should have been part 1 of a larger novel, perhaps the exposition at the beginning of a longer book.And tea. After “Ancillary Justice” series, I’m a bit twitchy when tea makes on-page appearance.Another one was the luxurious tease of this hope for the future. Because it just IS? We are told that the Transition happened from the grim Factory Age to this idyllic paradise, and my brain just keeps nagging at me about the implausibility of that given human nature and drives, and my inner cynicism starts running rampant — that cynicism that finds it a bit too cozy and luxurious to read about the world that might as well have come from a pretty concept picture of ecological paradise.There is a point where cozy and comforting becomes too much, and I felt that we are dangerously close to that boundary here. It’s a fable, I kept convincing myself, but my inner cynic kept muttering unpleasant remarks that would not be welcomed on planet Panga (hey, I just got it — Panga is pretty much “Pangaea”, right?).It feels like a dessert, a meringue that is soft and fluffy and will be very nice after a solid meat and potatoes course — but without that course not as satisfying. You gotta be in the right mood for it, and I don’t think I entirely was.I like my books with just a smidgeon more of teeth and bite, but that’s not Becky Chambers fault but mine entirely. Her book will be perfect for a perfect reader, and this time I wasn’t among them. Maybe I’ll feel less cynical next time.3.5 stars.Less cynical among us will love it.“The robot thought. “I have wants and ambitions too, Sibling Dex. But if I fulfill none of them, that’s okay. I wouldn’t—” It nodded at Dex’s cuts and bruises, at the bug bites and dirty clothes. “I wouldn’t beat myself up over it.”Dex turned the mug over and over in their hands. “It doesn’t bother you?” Dex said. “The thought that your life might mean nothing in the end?”“That’s true for all life I’ve observed. Why would it bother me?” Mosscap’s eyes glowed brightly. “Do you not find consciousness alone to be the most exhilarating thing? Here we are, in this incomprehensibly large universe, on this one tiny moon around this one incidental planet, and in all the time this entire scenario has existed, every component has been recycled over and over and over again into infinitely incredible configurations, and sometimes, those configurations are special enough to be able to see the world around them. You and I—we’re just atoms that arranged themselves the right way, and we can understand that about ourselves. Is that not amazing?”——————Also posted onmy blog.——————My Hugo and Nebula Awards Reading Project 2022