This is a fairly interesting concept with what I believe is a genuinely poor execution. The whole book feels unpolished. (This review is going to sound like I hate it, but really I'm mostly apathetic and once my frustration wears off I doubt I'll think of it much.)I loved the Sands of Arawiya duology so this was one of my most anticipated releases of the year, and now that I've read it I can firmly say, well...it's a book.This was a frustrating read. It constantly treats the reader like you're stupid, refusing to allow you to come to a single conclusion on your own and never trusting you to understand what's going on in the plot or emotionally with the characters. The sheer amount of overexplaining happening here had me doing a lot of "I KNOW, you don't need to tell me that!" It's not even just a matter of "show, don't tell," it's that the text oftenwouldshow, and then just in case you didn't pick up on the very obvious thing it was showing you it would explicitly tell you too. Please, trust that readers can pick up on very obvious signs of sarcasm, emotional reactions, and plot connections.Tempest is a heist novel and unfortunately I just don't think the heist is very good. Solutions are entirely too convenient, these characters we're supposed to believe are so smart and cunning that they can plan a heist in the most protected whatever-it-is make outrageously stupid mistakes that seriously undermine confidence in their ability to do any of this, and as always I simply cannot take seriously that these children are somehow renowned criminals respected and feared by actual adults. I would love to see a YA Heist novel like this that actually factors in that the characters are teenagers instead of expecting the reader to ignore that and pretend like it's totally normal that they're in these positions and no one questions their age. There is no reason why grown adults should be deferring to these teenagers other than the text telling me that they're definitely very well established and very successful criminals. Cool, show me some evidence of that.The characters hold a lot of potential but because the book is so dead set on explaining every single interaction, there's never a chance to actually settle into a scene with them. This is especially prevalent in the romantic plotlines, which the book focuses entirely too much on in contrast to the actual plot. It often feels like it's ticking off trope boxes for the sake of it and lacks any real tension or sweetness because everything is being spoonfed to the reader. One of my favorite tropes is present in this book, one that usually suckers me right in every time, and the fact that it did nothing for me really hits home that the reason successful tropes are successful isn't simply for the fact that the thing happens, it's what the author then has a chance to do with the characters in that moment, and I just don't think this book did anything great with them. There's never a chance for the reader to really connect with the character and the moment when the text is constantly telling you how you're supposed to be feeling. The scene should just evoke the feeling without the text holding my hand through the correct emotional response.The bizarre tie-in with Arthurian legend makes no sense and I believe is genuinely a detriment to the book. Maybe it will make sense later in the series, but I kept waiting for it here and it never did. The connection to the Sands of Arawiya books also feels completely unnecessary and weirdly convolutes the story. It was a fun little easter egg in the first mention but then it kept going and honestly I don't think it should have. It raises too many logistical questions the book doesn't have answers for, which is also a running theme in Tempest. The amount of times that something would be revealed/explained and my first reaction waswait a minute then how does...when it would open up a ton of questions it wants you to just not pay attention to, I guess. Quite a lot in this book feels like it wasn't entirely thought out and the reader is just supposed to accept things without questioning anything. Never ask an "and then what" question, because this book has no answers.And because the book holds your hand through every single piece of it, it's wildly predictable. Every twist and turn is seen a mile away and typically feels like waiting for the book to catch up to the thing it telegraphed a hundred or more pages ago. The pacing is off too, I was genuinely shocked to realize I was 40% through the book when I thought I was still in the beginning stages. There's a strange, jerky motion to the pacing where it doesn't move at all and then moves all at once and it was poorly balanced.As always, this three star review makes it sound like I completely hated it and I didn't. Really. I was just wildly apathetic and the most reactions it ever got out of me were being frustrated at the text. In the end it was on the lower end of a 3, but I can't find it in me to put it in the 2 level. It's not as bad as some others I've rated 2.5, so at a 3 it will stay.Very unlikely that I will be continuing this series, but we'll see if I've forgotten my frustration by the time the second book comes out.