This was a quick, fun, steamy read. Sira is an intelligent and witty character, and I liked being in her head. There were several quips that had me rolling with laughter. Her traumas inform motivations that make sense, without ever being dwelled on in a torture-porn way.The harem is sold to the reader as a gilded cage, but a safe one where concubines are respected and treated well, and where the sexy times feel enthusiastically consensual. I want to flat up acknowledge it's a fantasy (in the sexual sense), not a nuanced portrayal - but if you're into it, it's a fantasy done well.The magic system is simple but interesting and well integrated with the romantic plot. The backdrop of war/politics is distant window dressing that adds flavor to the world building and justifies the plot, but doesn't add any narrative tension - which I think is OK, because that's part of what makes this a fun, quick read.I only have a few mild criticisms -King Jasper's POV scenes feel a bit like cardboard. They do what they're supposed to from a narrative standpoint, but he honestly feels like a more fleshed out and multifaceted character when we're NOT in his head than when we are.The secondary characters can also fall a little flat. By the end of the book I loved Mallory, and I'm interested in seeing how Li is developed in the next book, but most of the rest of them I would have trouble describing to you because they seem interchangeable.And last criticism, the harem feels almost weirdly lacking in diversity. The king is expressly described as having "exotic interests" as an excuse for why he would be interested in our commoner immigrant main character - only for his harem to then be described as being exotic because it includes a couple girls with red or black hair, while avoiding describing skin tones at pretty much any point in the book. I get the feeling that the author was trying to avoid describing characters in ways that would be offensive or pull readers out of the story, but the end result is that the kingdom is (potentially accidentally) portrayed as deeply racially insular.I did like that Mallory is plus-sized and extremely sexy for it, so I do see the book as having tried to show that the harem has more than one supermodel-like definition of sexy/attractive.All said, still a fun, sexy, read with enough interesting dynamics in play that I've already downloaded the second book in the duology.