Accidental reread May '21:Oh look, I fell sideways into my favourite magical queer-friendly dragon expat spa colony and I regret nothing.*******************************************************Let me begin this review with a few sentiments approximating the noises in my head upon finishing this:EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE.ajskasuaiuwuioeuqw8euasIULXBaskmBNAKJSJHAKWEHAKJSHAklsjaKSHAkjsjaLKSHJklshA.HHHHHHHHHHHNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNHHHHHHHHHHHHGRRAAAAAARGAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHHH.AIAIAIAIAIAIAIAIAIAAIAIAIAIAIAIAIAIAIAIAIAIAIAIAIAIAI.woooooooooooohoooooooooooooyeeeeeeeeeehiiiiiiiiiiiiiyyyyyaaaaaaaaaa.Aaaaah, that’s better *flails* Obviously, this was masterful and I adored it. Thoughts in no particular order:First of all, I still wish it had been possible to publish this series as a duology – it’s rather noticeable how the story was set up to be that way. The momentum didn’t really develop properly untilDragon Haven, as it would in the second half of a single novel, and most ofCity of Dragonswas build-up for the events of this final volume. I’m really looking forward to rereading the series in one go sometime and seeing whether how affects the pacing.Anyway, this is about Blood of Dragons! SO MANY FEELS. So much nail-biting! So much bouncing glee!The dragons! THE DRAGONS ARE FLYING! FLYING AND HUNTING AND GROWING AND KILLING PEOPLE! It makes your heart swell. No, really, when this all started out and they were all stunted little miserable lizard things crawling about in the mud, I never thought they’d get to this point, and it’s been such a long and hard and magical journey. To see them finally flying and in charge of their own destiny – yeah, not gonna lie, there were sniffles involved.It’s brilliant and entertaining how most of the dragons found keepers that have similar personality traits – Thymara and Sintara with their prickly natures, Sedric and Relpda with their craving for luxury (“NO MUD!!”), Mercor and Sylve with their level-headedness. All those relationships were so well developed, even the more perfunctory arrangements like Carson and Spit. (Tarman with his gentle nudge at Leftrin and his assertion of “I’m the best, obviously” totally melted my heart, btw. YES, YOU ARE!)Thoroughly enjoyed all the news between the bird keepers – it was such an odd little sideplot to start with but it, too, has come such a long way, and it’s ridiculous how close Robin makes you feel to characters you never even meet in the flesh! Good to know that bastard Kim finally got exposed for the traitorous little shit he was. And and and the letters from the Vestrits, Wintrow in particular, were such a wonderful addition! It was like hearing from old friends.Tintaglia broke my heart into tiny tiny pieces. I honestly wasn’t sure if she was going to make it and it was sheer torture. It feels funny now to remember her when she was still in her cocoon and glamouring Reyn – she seemed like such a sinister influence back then and at first I was so annoyed with her snooty dismissive ways, but now? Compared to some of the other dragons (ahem, Sintara), she is downright mature and mellow *cuddles her*I love Malta and Reyn, and although I wasn’t huuuugely involved in their babyplot (she kinda lost me last book with that whole secretly giving birth under her skirts with the two assassins two feet away from her not noticing…), but I’m glad it all worked out for them, they’ve been through so much already. It all fell together so neatly with the discovery of the Silver, and then OH MY GOD, THE MENTION OF THE MARKS ON MALTA’S NECK! AMBER GAVE HER THOSE THE DAY THAT PARAGON LAUNCHED IN “THE MAD SHIP”!!! I went and looked it up because I only vaguely remembered it and god, it gave me shivers – Amber’s prophecy, and then Malta fainting and the unassuming little side mention of Amber having touched her neck with her bare (skill-covered) fingertips! It’s crazy how wonderfully plotted it all is, and I can’t express how much I love it when stories tie so beautifully into previously explored worlds/plots like this.(Sidebar: It’s been bugging me that Malta has gold hair now – I *think* there was something in City of Dragons about that being a dragon-induced Elderling change? But she definitely was described as dark-haired all through the Liveship Trader books. Even if it was an Elderling change, it’s kind of odd.)SELDEN OMG. His parts were the hardest to read :CCCCCCC What a horrid ordeal. (For the record, if no Vestrit family member ever gets raped again, that… would be good. It’s like they’re magnets for sexually violent creeps.) I felt a bit removed from him in the earlier parts of the series simply because there was so much of his story that wasn’t covered, but I was definitely deeply invested in him in this final instalment. I was so glad he made it out of there, although oh god, he’s going to be so broken. And his shared prison time with Chassim and the conversations they had were just devastating. When they made the pact that they’d both die on the same day… HEARTBREAK. I hope the Duke got acid-eaten sloooooowly.As ever, Robin Hobb does the best despicable villains – not clichéd storybook villains, just people who are horrid for various reasons. And the best thing is when you meet a character who’s just a completely awful human being, you never know whether she’s going to somehow completely turn them around (hi Malta!) or reveal some horridly twisted back-story that makes you feel for them despite their awfulness (ack, Kennit), or whether they’re just going to pretty much stay repulsive and hopefully get their come-uppance someday (ugh, Kyle Haven; screw you, Duke of Chalced; DIE, PRINCE REGAL, DIE DIE). Hest Finbok falls into the latter category – no substantial change of heart/mind, he’s just your genuine douchebag article. He goes through some shit in this book, of course, and I was actually prepared to feel sorry for him at various points, but then he just goes and keeps on blaming everybody else and being horrid to people and yeah, there goes the sympathy.I loved Alise and Sedric both putting Hest in his place – Sedric’s big denunciation speech in front of everyone (complete with public snoggage and applause) could have been cringily on the nose, but it worked because he did it for Alise and I love that they’ve managed to retain and strengthen their friendship and close ranks against Hest. (Could’ve done without Carson crying a Single Tear, though, to be honest!) And aaaaargh, then he goes and puts his rapey hands on Davvie! Grrrrrrr. I was so relieved Davvie didn’t go for it, and that he and Sedric both punched him. Wheeeeeee. AND THEN KALO GOES AND EATS HIM. KALO IS MY HERO. Well, again, I flinched a bit and was ready to almost feel sorry for the bloody arse again, because okay, that is a nasty way to die. But then his last thought – his LAST thought! – is how everyone will mock him if he’s a cripple, and uhm, wow. No, dude, you will be dead and everyone will forget you and your shitty boyfriend-abusing delusional little tiny insignificant life. Now I just hope Kalo puked out his memories somewhere, because Hest does not deserve to continue in any shape or form. It was a fitting touch for no one to figure out what had happened to him, and no one caring.Bit peeved off at some characters, particularly Carson, at their continued dismissal of some relationships (Davvie and Lecter’s, mostly, but also Tats/Thymara/Rapskal) as immature, impermanent and therefore somehow not worthwhile. Carson, you are usually so lovely, don’t be a judgemental arse to your nephew/ward/son figure! :C I mean yeah, most teenage romances are usually considered impermanent, that’s fine – but that’s no reason to utterly dismiss the feelings of the teenagers involved as silly or not legitimate, or to rub the transient nature of most teen relationships into the teen’s face. I was pretty pissed at him last book when he basically told Tats that his feelings weren’t real (while flaunting his own perfect relationship with Sedric, no less), and he’s been rubbish at being supportive to Davvie, essentially dismissing him and his problems with Lecter just because they’re young. It’s not like Sedric is heaps older than the teens, I wonder how Carson would feel if someone told him, “pft, your boyfriend is only sticking around until someone better comes along.” Don’t get me wrong, it made for great, believable character-based conflict, it was a very authentic portrayal of how many adults do treat teenage relationships, and if Carson was the perfect father in addition to being the perfect partner and perfect leader/hunter/provider figure, it would probably have been too much ;) Just needed to get that off my chest. (Also HELLO, MALTA IS RIGHT THERE, HER RELATIONSHIP WITH HER HUSBAND STARTED WHEN SHE WAS, LIKE, THIRTEEN!) Again, it was neat to see the teens in question proving him wrong, with Davvie noticeably coming into his own, and Tats and Thymara working things out.Speaking off, gaaaah, Rapskal’s disappearance into Tellator and Thymara trying to keep him from losing himself was heart-wrenching. She’s never been one of my favourite characters but I probably felt most strongly for her in this book. Again, the development was masterful.What else – oh, Alise! It was wonderful to see her make her own place in the world and finding that she has things to offer even if she isn’t an Elderling. You go, girl. She’s come such a long way. (I want to read all her scrolls. Also, I want to live in Kelsingra, but that’s a no-brainer. Hot baths? Shiny clothes? Beds that mould to your shape? Rooms that always stay warm? An entire magical city to explore and bring back to life? I’m so there.)It was so good to see Paragon again (he’s still my favourite liveship, although I adore Tarman as well), along with Althea and Brashen & Co. I whooped out loud when Paragon was handing out breeding advice to Alise and Leftrin. Tactless ship is tactless!The ending was perfect – Tintaglia picking a mate who suits her better than IceFyre, everyone being pretty much agreed that the future will need to bring changes, fucking Chalced finally put in its place (go Chassim! She’s going to do great things with it!), and NEW DRAGON EGGS ABOUT TO BE LAID. There were tears. The good kind. I want to go straight back to the Farseer trilogy now and reread them all chronologically (ahahahahah, that would almost be the same number of books as the entirety of Wheel of Time!). Robin Hobb is still magic.