Here’s another "great" book about a dysfunctional group of people. (This family might even be worse than the family in Al Capone Does My Shirts). I can’t remember a single time the entire family got along – including Christmas! But if you’re wanting some world-class sibling fight scenes, look no further. There’s some prize-winning battles in here.Along with the constant brawls, is the continuous use of the Lord’s name. I’m not sure why the family mentions God so often since after the mother got mad at the preacher three years ago, they only attend church on Easter; not that the rest of the family cares – they all think church is boring.And then there’s the crush the boy has on his teacher. But it seems to be reciprocated. What’s up with that? She gives this ten-year-old special attention in class, even taking him out for a day (just the two of them – kind of like a “date”).While the book does end with the brother taking his little sister into his imaginary land (in the place of his friend), I just can’t see that that makes up for everything else. That’s a lot of wading just to get to something like three sweet paragraphs at the end.Children's Bad WordsMild Obscenities & Substitutions - 17 Incidents: crud, shut up, d*mn, b*tched, durn, durned, heck, dang, h*llName Calling - 23 Incidents: hippie, peacenik, stupid, dumbhead, Yellow-bellied sapsucker, dumb, yeller, dumb, dunce, dumb dodoScatological Terms - 1 Incident: bl**dy (as in lots of blood)Religious Profanities - 42 Incidents: Lord, thank the Lord, for heaven's sake, good gosh, oh my GodReligious & Supernatural - 17 Incidents: Magic "...it could be a magic country like Narnia..." Reference to God's attitude at Creation "Like God in the Bible, they looked at what they had made and found it very good." Spirits "'This is not an ordinary place,' she whispered. 'Even the rulers of Terabithia come into it only at times of greatest sorrow or of greatest joy. We must strive to keep it sacred. It would not do to disturb the Spirits.'" Ghost in a drawing "How could you make a ghost come out of the fog?" A religion of "magic" is mentioned followed by a prayer. "'O God,' she began. She was more at home with magic than religion. 'O Spirits of the Grove.' 'Thy right arm hast given us the victory.' He couldn't remember where he had heard that one, but it seemed to fit. Leslie gave him a look of approval. She took up the words. 'Now grant protection to Terabithia, to all its people, and to us its rulers.' 'Aroooo.' Jess tried hard not to smile. 'And to its puppy dog.' 'And to Prince Terrien, its guardian and jester. Amen.' 'Amen.'" A boy makes a girl swear on the Bible never to tell a secret he wants to keep. Church attendance "Since Momma got mad at the preacher three years back, Easter was the only time in the year that the Aarons went to church and it was a big deal. His mother always cried poor, but she put a lot of thought and as much money as she could scrape together into making sure she wouldn't be embarrassed by how her family looked." Children fight, not wanting to attend church. The argument is primarily about clothes. Church is referred to as "boring." "Ellie said she would go to church if Momma would let her wear the see-through blouse, and Brenda would go if she at least got a new skirt." "''Cause if you don't believe the Bible'--May Belle's eyes were huge--'God'll damn you to hell when you die.'" Children suggest going to "inquire of the Spirits what this evil might be..." Children chant and "pray" to the "Spirits" of the grove. Hell and whether or not children are sent there is briefly discussed. The conclusion of the conversation is: "'Lord, boy, don't be a fool. God ain't gonna send any little girls to hell.'" A bird hopping is taken as a "sign from the Spirits" because they made a "worthy offering." "Father, into Thy hands I commend her spirit." A young girl swears on the Bible that she will keep a secret, emphasizing that she is swearing to something higher than Momma or her siblings.Romance Related - 22 Incidents: A childhood romance/crush with initials carved onto a desk. A reaction to a beautiful girl is noted as causing "Even his toes had felt warm and tingly." The next paragraph notes that "...she gave him a look with those blue eyes of hers that made him zing like one of the strings she was strumming." Childhood romance "Girl friend", "kiss you" and "could go to you-know-where and warm his toes" are all referenced. Lust related "Jess kept having visions of Mrs. Myers dressed only in a pink corset being weight in." Girl Friend "Brenda and Ellie always managed some remark about 'girlfriend.'" Children write a "love letter". "Dearest Janice", and it is signed "kisses." A child is accused of having a "secret love" in another place. Children have a 'date' "'Reckon you all know that Janice has a heavy date with you know who.'" Date referenced. Childhood relationships "Billy yelled a cuss word, and the entire back seat plunged into a heated discussion as to whether Janice Avery and Willard Hughes were or were not in love and were or were not seeing each other secretly. Boyfriends referenced. A child's "sweetheart" is mentioned.Being close to a girl made a boy feel "dizzy from the closeness." A boy has a crush on his teacher: "Miss Edmunds was one of his secrets. He was in love with her... This was too real and too deep to talk about, even to think about very much. Her long swishy black hair and blue, blue eyes ... and she had this soft floaty voice that made Jess squish inside... she was gorgeous. And she liked him, too. *A few other similar instances are indicated a few other times. "He knew she was happy to be with him, and that was enough to know. A boy has a crush on his teacher: She would bend her head down close to his face to give some explanation or ask him a question, her black hair falling across her shoulders. Men would stare at her instead of the pictures, and Jess felt they must be jealous of him for being with her. The teacher as she talks with the boy: "Her hair brushing his cheek as she leaned over to look at it." Thoughts across a boy's mind: "Leslie--dead--girl friend--rope--broke--fell--you--you--you." Bosomy: "He could see the seventh graders headed for the bus--the huge bossy bosomy girls and the mean, skinny, narrow-eyed boys." Mentions immodest clothing: "'C'mon, Leslie,' he said, and then he made himself turn and give Janice Avery one of those look-overs from frizz blond hair, past too tight blouse and broad-beamed jeans, to gigantic sneakers." A reference to Twinkies "padding" someone's "bottom." After picking up a puppy "'Watch it,' Jess cautioned. 'It sprays worse'n a water pistol.'" The conversation continues: "'Is it male or female?' and then a reply 'Boy.'Attitudes/Disobedience - 36 Incidents: 4 year old throws a tantrum and is disciplined. It is stated that "Four-year-olds were a pure pain." A child speaks of hating another. "I hate Joyce Anne."Bullying: "They would even stand outside the girls' room first thing every morning and make the little girls give them their milk money before they'd let them go to the bathroom." A child accuses another of having stolen "'She stole my Twinkies!'" A child's anger is encouraged "'You gotta kill Janice Avery. Kill her! Kill her! Kill her!'" Followed by "'You gotta beat her up into a million pieces!'" Follow up on page 50: "'It ain't as good as seeing her beat to a million pieces.'" It is noted that someone smokes in the girls bathroom. A threat "'Jess Aarons, I'm going to kill you.'" Lie "'You lie, Billy Morris!'" Cursing "Billy yelled a cuss word..." Anger and Revenge "'She deserves everything she gets and then some.'" Arguments and speculation over boyfriends and girlfriends.Theft "He even stole paper and crayons from school to do it with." Lie "'Gotta do an errand for my mother,' he lied." "Jess stole a ribbon from Brenda's drawer..." Anger "But the silly cars kept falling off at the curves until his father was cursing at them with impatience." Anger "'Cheap junk.' His father kicked at the floor dangerously near the track." A child's tantrum. "If he yelled at her to get the heck off him, she'd stick her index finger in the corner of her mouth and holler. Which would, of course, crank up his mother." This continues through the next paragraph, where his mother seems to scold him. Cursing "next a string of cuss words which were too loud to be blurred by the closed door." Dishonesty "'I told her to just pretend she didn't know what on earth Wilma and Bobby Sue had said...'" Threatening "He grabbed her shoulders and made her look him in the face. She blinked in the dim light like a startled chicken. 'You listen here, May Belle Aarons,' he whispered fiercely, 'I catch you following me again, your life ain't worth nothing.'" Keeping information from Mama. "If I know them, they'll trick new clothes out of somebody. It would make you throw up to see how those girls make a spectacle of themselves at church." Girls behave in a way to draw attention to themselves at church, hoping to draw a "jealous eye." "Why are you so mean to me?" "Will you shut up, May Belle? You'll have everyone in the whole house woke up with that big mouth of yours." "'Tell Momma what?' 'How you just stand there staring at me when I ain't got my clothes on.' Lord. She thought he was enjoying it. 'Yeah, well,' he said, heading for the door so she wouldn't throw anything else at him. 'Pretty girl like you. Can't hardly help myself.' He could hear her giggling as he crossed the kitchen." "He didn't want her waking Momma up before he got away. He was scared to look back even after he was in the car and on the main road for fear he'd see his mother screaming after him." "He knew she was happy to be with him, and that was enough to know." A boy secretly goes on a "date" with his teacher. His attitude at the end of the date is: "It didn't matter how angry his mother was. She'd get over it. And it was worth it." A boy believes his parents are lying to him about his friend's death. An argument over whether or not a boy is grieving a death: "'Will you shut your mouth, Brenda Aarons?' His mother sprang forward, the pancake turner held threateningly high. 'Well, Momma, he's just sitting there eating pancakes like nothing happened. I'd be crying my eyes out.'" A boy hits a girl in the face "as hard as he had ever hit anything in his life." **Note that he feels bad about this later, and wants to tell her he is sorry but is too tired to find the right words. Anger - a boy screams and throws papers and paints."'I hate her,' Jess said through his sobs. 'I hate her. I wish I'd never seen her in my whole life.'" **Note that Jess later repents of these comments, saying: "'I didn't mean that about hating her,' he said. 'I don't know what made me say that.' His father nodded to show he understood." A boy refuses to stand for the Pledge of Allegiance when told to by his teacher. He thinks: "... he didn't really care. What could she do to him, after all?"Conversation Topics - 12 Incidents: A boy has a secret which is that he is "in love" with a girl. It's his teacher that he's in love with. Teasing/Bullying/Peer Pressure "Jess had written about football, which he really hated, but he had enough brains to know that if he said drawing, everyone would laugh at him." A girl has more compassion for animals than people: "Maybe I got this thing for Janice like you got this thing for killer whales." A child's perception of parents "It had never occurred to Jess that parents were meant to be understood any more than the safe at the Millsburg First National was sitting around begging him to crack it. Parents were what they were; it wasn't up to you to try to puzzle them out. There was something weird about a grown man wanting to be friends with his own child. He ought to have friends his own age and let her have hers." Smoke is mentioned "Besides, the smoke is so thick in there you need a gas mask." Again, a girl has more compassion for animals than people and is prodded by a boy to do the right thing/good deed for a person: "He looked at her. 'Well,' he said. 'What should we do?' 'Do?' she asked. 'What do you mean what should we do?' How could he explain it to her? 'Leslie. If she was an animal predator, we'd be obliged to try to help her.' Leslie gave him a funny look." "Did you know her father beats her?"Theft - It is discussed about charging clothes, wearing them and returning them. The family fights over this. "I'm a liberated woman, Jess Aarons. When I invite a man out, I pay." An argument over whether or not a boy is grieving a death: "'Will you shut your mouth, Brenda Aarons?' His mother sprang forward, the pancake turner held threateningly high. 'Well, Momma, he's just sitting there eating pancakes like nothing happened. I'd be crying my eyes out.'" It is noted that a girl was cremated. Again it is questioned whether or not people are appropriately grieving for the girl who died.Parent TakeawayThe family in this story is entirely dysfunctional and it is paraded throughout the entire book. The parents do not get along with each other or the children, and the siblings do not get along either. There is constant fighting, taunting and lying. Maybe the only redeeming relational quality is that at the very end of the book, the main character invites his sister to be queen of his imaginary land of Terabithia. The two main characters have some odd discussions about Christianity and God, particularly about hell; and there is a few humanistic thoughts woven here and there. The main characters are definitely not examples of great character.**Like my reviews? Then you should follow me! Because I have hundreds more just like this one. With each review, I provide a Cleanliness Report, mentioning any objectionable content I come across so that parents and/or conscientious readers (like me) can determine beforehand whether they want to read a book or not. Content surprises are super annoying, especially when you’re 100+ pages in, so here’s my attempt to help you avoid that!SoFolloworFriendme here on GoodReads! And be sure to check out my bio page to learn a little about me and thePicture Book/Chapter Book Calendars I sellon Etsy!