Mercedes Lackey's Valdemar is a brightly drawn, vivid world, perhaps not terribly unique in its particulars, but remarkable enough in terms of its social & magical structures. Unfortunately, at least in the case ofBrightly Burning, the world is populated by flat, unlikable, and inconsistent characters. Furthermore,Brightly Burningsuffers from a plot that is hastily conceived and poorly executed.Lavan Chitward's life is suffering. At the start of the book it was a struggle to determine how much of Lan's struggle was meant to be sympathetic, and how much of it was meant to be hilarious. There's some overblown teen angst because his parents just don't understand him and he doesn't want to have a job or do chores or anything like that, so instead they send him to a school where he is mercilessly bullied. I feel like this was the part of the book that gripped me the most -- there was emotional tension, palpable danger, and I felt like Lan grew as a character during his time at school. However, Lan's gift soon awakens and he moves on to the Collegium.As a new reader to Lackey's Valdemar, I found the structure of the Collegium fun & engaging, if not particularly inspired. Still, the plot started to drag here -- by the time the midwinter festivities rolled around, I was struggling to finish a chapter per day. Strangely, the narrative doesn't really pick up from that point onward -- there's about as much time devoted to inconsequential travel as there is to the big climax at the end. Which, I think, highlights the fact that the book suffered badly from a lack of conflict. The bullies in the first portion of the narrative provide a source of conflict, but once they're dealt with, and all the loose ends concerning that are tied up, there's no real driving force behind the narrative. Of course there's the war with Karse, but it's strangely absent from the narrative, and, as another reviewer noted, feels tacked on. I guess the foreshadowing at the beginning of the book implied a very different story than the one I eventually got.Furthermore, while the writing itself was perfectly serviceable, even enjoyable, there were two big weaknesses to the craft of the novel: (1) dialogue, which bordered on unrealistic and even hokey at times, and (2) action sequences, which were especially notable towards the end of the book where we got detailed descriptions of the armies' movements, but no real sense of the battle, or of the impact of the battle. Furthermore, several times the same sequence of events were retold from both Lan and Pol's perspective with nothing unique or valuable added to the retelling.Still, the greatest flaw in the book lies, at least for me, with its characters. I failed to get a firm grasp on Lavan as a character. He started off as a whiny teenager and grew into someone with very little in the way of personality. Was he witty? He had his moments, but they were few and far between. Was he observant? Some of his comments would lead us to think so, but considering how absurdly obvious he was to Elenor, I would hesitate to attribute this characteristic to him. He was certainly (and understandably) angry, but aside from some (very understandable) reactions, I got no sense of character from him.Similarly, Pol and Tuck also fell flat. Pol was the generic mentor/dad and Tuck was the token best friend who was conveniently capable of whatever quality was necessary. Kalira had some personality, but since all her interactions were reactionary to Lan she was similarly hard to pin down. I guess I rather liked Elenor, which meant that this book was certainly not for me. Indeed, Elenor's treatment was abhorrent -- she's constantly dismissed as whiny, naive, useless, and stupid (even by her own parents). For the last half of the book she has this completely inexplicable crush on Lan that serves no narrative purpose. It's never acknowledged, it never causes anything to happen, and her presence is ultimately completely meaningless to the plot. I was expecting her to sacrifice herself for Lan or something similarly tragic, but she mostly just mooned over him then got over it.And, to tackle the elephant in the room, I was pretty weirded out by the whole life-bond thing with Lan and Kalira. Not necessarily because it was a dude in love with his not!horse (though that was strange) but because it happened to immediately. It was just mentioned off hand for the purpose of causing Elenor angst (to no real end) and didn't play much of a role except in the last fifteen pages or so of the novel. I really would've been okay with the life-bond if there had been some growth or acknowledgement of it, but it was mostly a vehicle for the tragedy at the end which made it feel cheap, rather than meaningful.I'm intrigued enough by the world to try other Valdemar novels by Lackey, butBrightly Burningitself was a disappointment and a trial to read.