♣︎ 2022 REVIEW (Dramatized Version) ♣︎4.5 ★ Audiobook⎮Let me preface this review by saying that if you do not like sound effects and background music in your audiobooks, this particular dramatization is not for you. These things are prevalent in the Graphic Audio dramatization of Clean Sweep and, in my opinion, provide an immersive experience. However, some listeners may find them distracting. I've never been particularly put off by these things in audiobooks, so I greatly enjoyed this listening experience.Graphic Audio's slogan is 'A Movie in Your Mind' and, I have to say, that is completely accurate. It's like I could see the story come alive in my mind. Soon after I began listening, I decided that this audiobook deserved my full focus, so I began listening after I went to bed each night, which really allowed for maximum immersion in the story.My experience with the dramatized version of Clean Sweep greatly differed from my listening experience of the original audiobook when I heard it back in 2016. I attribute a great deal of that to the dramatization of the story. I found that it was much easier to focus on the story and that my mind wandered a lot less while listening to the dramatized version. Plus, I always enjoy full cast narrations. On the rare occasions when my mind would wander a bit, the frequent sound effects would pull it back to the story (and scare the sh*t out of my cat 😂), which was an added perk of listening to this version.I also credit my changed opinion of Clean Sweep to the fact that I'm in a different place in my life now than when I listened before and things can 'hit differently' after a few years, you know? For example, in my original review (linked here), I compared Clean Sweep to the show Supernatural and said that I had never really been able to get into that show either. In 2016, that was true. I had tried several times and failed to get into that show. Fast forward to 2022 and, not only have I completed the entire 16 seasons of Supernatural, but I've also just returned from a Supernatural fan convention (where I met both Jared and Jensen!). See what a difference a few years can make?!It gave me a good chuckle to see that I had written in my original review: "Unless one day I suddenly become majorly interested in all things alien/paranormal, I don’t think I would particularly gain anything from listening to the rest of the series." Well guess what, 2016 Jess?! You are way into the Paranormal genre now. 👽All of this makes me want to go back and give things I had previously written off another try. But first, I'm going to be listening to Graphic Audio's dramatized version of Sweep In Peace, the next book in the Innkeeper Chronicles series.==============================================♣︎ 2016 REVIEW (narrated by Renée Raudman) ♣︎3.5 ★ Audiobook⎮ This is going to be an extremely subjective review and my intention is not to deter anyone from giving this audiobook a chance. I do feel that it is a quality piece of work with some wonderful attributes. If intense paranormal fiction with all the trimmings is your kind of thing, then Clean Sweep will be perfect for you! It's got witches, werewolves, vampires, and lots of alien critters. It's basically the literary version of the television show Supernatural. If I had known that going in, odds are that I never would have started this. I have tried (and failed) to get into Supernatural on numerous occasions, but it's just not for me. I think I must prefer my paranormal fiction to stick to two (or less) types of supernatural species instead of throwing in the whole lot of the paranormal universe in a package deal. If this story had stuck with just specializing in witches (like I was expecting it to), I'm sure I would have enjoyed it much more. But no, Andrews had to throw in werewolves, and then vampires, and then a whole host of obscure alien creatures (which is where I lost interest). I'm not ready to rule out alien fiction altogether, but I haven't had much luck with it so far. I will say that I preferred this story so much more than other comparable paranormal fiction. Namely, the Lux series by Jennifer L. Armentrout. Unlike Obsidian, I was actually able to finish this audiobook. Clean Sweep was a much less juvenile story and this one installment far surpassed anything I have ever experienced from Armentrout. If you are a fan of hers, I seriously encourage you to give this series a shot. The writing is so much better, the protagonist is very likable, and the plot isn't centered around a romance. And this story never gave me the impression that it was written for someone younger than me.Aside from the basic plot premise not being "my cup of tea", I was a bit disturbed by a couple of points. Firstly, the story opens with the protagonist investigating a string of gruesome dog murders in her neighborhood. For some people, that may not bother them at all. However, animal abuse is extremely difficult for me to tolerate in literature (and life). My motto is "kill the character, save the dog". No apologies. So obviously, this bit of the story struck me the wrong way. The second thing was that I found the writing in some scenes to be a little graphic in contrast to the overall feel of the story. The writing was very descriptive, which was generally a positive thing, but it sometimes came off a teensy bit scifi horror-ish. Maybe I've gone soft from reading so much YA, but I wasn't prepared for that type of gore in this particular story. Coincidentally, that is also one of the primary problems I had when watching Supernatural. But it's not anything that would deter me from continuing on with the series. However, my general lack of interest in the story is. Unless one day I suddenly become majorly interested in all things alien/paranormal, I don't think I would particularly gain anything from listening to the rest of the series. I don't feel bad about having listened to this installment, especially because it was only 7 hours long, but I don't exactly feel like it was time well spent for me either. But I must emphasize that I do think a great number of you would feel very differently, especially if you already know you are attracted to this type of genre. I would recommend this to someone in a heartbeat if I felt that it was their "thing" because it is extremely well-written, witty, the characters are refreshing, and it has a great plot. I'm just not into aliens. It's that simple.Narration review: If I didn't know better, I would swear this audiobook was narrated by Dolly Parton herself. Raudman's voice has a warm, velvety tone that I absolutely loved. Her "Texan" accent definitely added to the story's atmosphere, but did sound a little overdone. However, it didn't bother me as much as I initially thought it would and I actually came to enjoy it as the story went on. I have listened to a sample of another narration she did without the accent and preferred it much more. Her voice really is pleasing to the ear. It's a shame that her considerable repertoire doesn't include more titles that immediately appeal to me, because I would definitely love to hear more of her. ♣︎