This book.This fucking book...Okay.....breathe....deep breaths......You can do this......Okay in all seriousness, I'm not even really angry.Just.....Devon Monk is an author I've sort of had my eye on for a while now. She's prolific enough that I felt that it worth at least giving her work a try and given that the Ordinary Magic series is one of her more recent series, I figured it was as good a place to start as any.But if this is the typical output for Miss Monk, I have to wonder how she's managed to remain so prolific. Is this another case of quantity over quality?! Because that's what this feels like.The plot is your typical murder mystery story with a diabetic's helping of schmaltzy romance on the side in addition to Death taking a holiday and a dead god's power needing a new host. The premise of the series is that it takes place in a town in Oregon where gods and monsters give up their godhood for a time and have holidays. And that would a decent premise to work with.....If Devon Monk didn't somehow manage to take it and turn it into something so boring and mundane that I found myself speeding through the last 50 pages to get to the end.For starters, the pacing is like a virgin's first time in the sack - a series of awkward stop-starts ending with a wet squib on the sheets followed by misery and shame. Here's a plot rundown by page count:1 - 100: An explosion and a murder of a god. Lots of faffing about and romantic bullshit.101 - 200: An investigation that goes nowhere. Faffing about with the god's power. Lots of talking and romantic bullshit. A food-tasting competition. More talking and romantic bullshit.201 - 315: Romantic bullshit. The murder investigation ends. A break-up. Lot plot threads are tied up. The end.I'm not kidding. So little of this story actually revolves around the murder investigation and is dominated by mediocre romance drama, talking, talking, more talking with nothing of consequence happening, followed by an ending that dribbles to a halt like the stain on the sheets after a clumsy shag.Still, you'd think the setting might be worth a look.That, dear reader, is the brain parasite in your frontal lobe leading you astray.Despite the setting being a potential hotbed for fantastical activity, nothing distinct or interesting happens. The gods go by painfully dumb names that are mostly just their standard names cribbed down or even unchanged - seriously you have Thanatos, the god of death, go by Than?! - which itself implies the townspeople are dumber than a dumptruck full of hammers, that nobody has ever suspected something was weird.But even if that was the case, I doubt it would matter because the gods in this book do nothing godlike. Seriously you could change out the word 'god' for 'alien' and nothing would change. Maybe the twist is that Delaney is hallucinating everything.Maybe you're hallucinating me right now.Maybe I'm right behind you.Speaking of Delaney, allow me to introduce you to Delaney Reed, our resident protagonist and horny dumbass for the story. I'm not kidding when I say that Delaney is a dumbass who is so desperate for the D that the lady-spunk in her pants could flood a river. A good third of the story is literally her wetting her knickers over her childhood crush, pining over him, whining to herself about why she shouldn't pursue him, finally hooking up with him, him breaking it off for fuck knows reason, and getting bitchy about it. This is not interesting! This is padding and it's lazy padding. And that's not even accounting for her ex swooping into town and contributing fuck and all to the plot until the end.I wasn't kidding about Delaney being an idiot. The plot literally does not move forward without her overlooking things, ignoring things, or not understanding things. This woman is supposed to be a trained cop and she acts like a horny schoolgirl! To list some of her acts of dumbassery:- Her childhood crush mentioned valkyries and she doesn't twig to something being up. Keep in mind, this is in a town where gods and monsters are commonplace and he mentions this completely out of the blue.- Her sister rings her late in the story and tells her she had a vision of Delaney getting hurt if she stepped outside her house. So what does she do? She goes outside and gets fucking shot!- She is such an inept cop that the murderer literally has to walk through the door of the cop-shop and try to kill her in a scene that feels straight out of Scooby-Doo!Even by the end, nothing about the story felt earned or accomplished. The murderer only gets caught because they themselves were a fucking twit, the dead god's power is transferred with no conflict or strain, Delaney and boytoy number 1 break up after a single night of sex and miscommunication - i.e two grown adults acting like fucking teenagers - and portents galore for a second book I will never read.You might think by this review that I'm angry at this book for wasting my time. But honestly, I'm just bored. The premise was boring, the plot was boring, the characters were boring - seriously Delaney's romantic hunks could be replaced with puppies and that would be an improvement - the gods were boring, the mystery was boring, the resolution was boring. Everything was so fucking BORING!!!Is this really what one can expect from Devon Monk? Is this typical for her? Is she the equivalent of John Hodgson or William Massa? Someone tell me!