#51 in my 365 Kids Books challenge and multi-year effort to get Goodreads to fix the Top Readers, etc. lists. For a fuller explanation see my review for101 Amazing Facts about AustraliaYou can see all the books on their ownshelfIt seems unlikely that I will actually achieve 365 reviews of kids books this year, but I don't want to stop.11 April 2021I rather like what I had originally written on this. Now that Offspring are grown and gone to college I really really love running across these little moments I captured back in the day.***16 July 2014An object lesson:Many parents who read aloud to their children may finds themselves one day wondering when, exactly, that fell by the wayside. It can be a gradual thing, having trouble choosing a book everyone wants, finding the time away from homework, and showers, and music practice, and dance classes. But what I learned last night is, it doesn't have to be.There was a new Mo Willems book on display at the library. Of course, I picked it up. Adults and older children who aren't reading Willems are really missing something last observed in Calvin and Hobbes. The art is so simple, so spare, so casual-looking, that it may take you a moment to realize what incredible skill went into drawing so effortlessly perfect characters. There is a pigeon, beady-eyed and aggressive. There is a duckling, with enormous blue eyes and adorable feet. (Go ahead, you try drawing winsome with so few lines and see what monsters you create. I'll wait.....I know, it's hard.)I sat there on the sofa, rooting through my bag of loot from the library trawl, casually stacking everything beside me, face up. The children, loathe to start their going-to-bed rituals, lingered and looked on. And then I just whipped out The Duckling, held it in the traditional story-time open fashion, and started reading. I hadn't left the title page before the PandaBat had jumped in, lending a patented cute-toddler voice to the Duckling.So we read. And we laughed. It wasn't any time at all, less than five minutes, but all three of us were utterly delighted. It was a charming moment, and who doesn't need more of those on school-and-work-nights? Just because my 13 and 10 -year-old kids aren't inclined to be seen checking out picture books themselves, doesn't mean they won't love them.Thus endeth the lesson.Library copy