"Oh, you're the most delightful sort of mad, aren't you?"Well, well, well I certainly didn't expect this book to beabsolutely everything I want from a Wonderland retelling/inspired story. The madcap aesthetic was perfect, the confusion and crazy pell-mell tumble of events, the characters, the dialogue . . . EVERYTHING hit just right for me. I kind of wished this had been a wee bit longer, or was part of a larger series, becauseI wanted to spend more time in this book, basking in the fun, sci-fi Wonderland vibe it created."I've found that such bindings can often make things more interesting. If it makes you feel better, I can take a turn in them afterward."The introduction of Shadow was the clincher for me on loving this book. He was sucha wild, tumultuous character that made the Wonderland aesthetic proudand really held the book together. He lightened up the darker moments, brought a touch of reality to the lighter moments, and really wasprobably the best character in here. I fell head-over-heels for his mad hatter-eqseue snark AND the fact that he wasn't a Mad Hatter as the love interest?? As much as I love all renditions of that other character, it was certainly fun to have the romance take a different sort of turn in here."Because that is how the real world works, Shadow. People die.""Yes. In the real world, people die. And then they come back—usually angry that they were killed to begin with."The video game respawn concept of this "world" deserves a mention, if only because it was a great thing and really added to the character interactions and literal stabbing. The idea of people just running around and chopping heads off in annoyance, only for that person to pop up a day or so later to annoy them all over again?? Love it."I don't want anything more than I want you right now, but we have some people we need to threaten first."Finally,the romantic arc was fun, flirty, sweet, and just the right amount of crazyand one of the things I loved second-best about this story. The push-and-pull between them led to a natural development of feelings and then love and, just like in the previous books from these authors,the steamy times were rather good and just wild enoughto add a nice sexy depth to all the other aesthetics in here.Now, even after all the wonderful vibes,the ending fell very very short of all the expectations it had built up.But it wasn'tterribleand I loved the rest of the book, so it didn't bother me as much.And, just because I came across this again in my gif hunt, have one of my fav moments from the Burton Wonderland films as an ending bonus: