*** This review contains spoilers for both novellas that are in this bind-up ***Rating: 🌟🌟🌟 (3/5 stars).I feel like I have been such a fan of the shatter me for such a long time and like somehow I read this newer trilogy (or like the newer books) when my life is always messed up and family drama is around. Haha, somehow that happened again when I read this book. I always knew I wanted to read this when both short stories were out and before the last book in this series came out. And that what I did. I will have some thoughts about both short stories down below.Thoughts about Shadow Me:Kenji's point of view was cute but in all honesty his novella was kind of pointless😂I am intrigued about Nouria now and Kenji officially has re-invoked my sympathy for Adam. Also, I will always and forever think Kenji is such a real chaotic bi disaster and it's so sad to hear that my puppy bear is struggling with his mental health too. Oh and I still love Warner to death.Thoughts about Reveal Me:I liked this second novella so much more than the first one. I also somehow didn´t know this one would be from Kenji´s point of view too so I was really shocked (and happy) when I found I would get more of Kenji. I truly felt bad for the sweetest puppy Kenji and I also somehow completely forgot Nouria was Castle´s daughter. I am still not sure how I feel about Kenji´s budding romance with Nezeera. I am not hating it but I am also not liking it. Warner and Juliette are still absolutely the cutest and I barely could handle them. ALSO THANK YOU KENJI FOR CARING ABOUT BOTH ADAM AND JAMES, LIKE I WAS SCREAMING TOO THAT THEY WEREN´T THERE. Also what the actual fuck happened at the end. Tahereh Mafi you simply just can´t end your novella like that. SERIOUSLY YOU CAN´T, IT DESTROYED ME. I actually thought this one was pretty good unlike the previous one (Shadow me which was really pointless and unnecessary). Also, my puppy, the sweetest, the babe Kenji really deserves ALL THE HAPPINESS. AND MY POOR BABY! I REALLY CARE ABOUT YOU! Lol, I don´t really care that much about Juliette anymore since I think her character kind of got butchered in the last few books and now I am basically still reading it for Warnette, Warner, Kenji & James content. Also, I am actually liking and caring for Adam again. I don´t think he deserved the hate he got.I am truly not ready for this series to end again. I might not love the newer books as much as I love the OG books but I still really enjoy them. I honestly cannot wait to read Imagine Me but I am also terrified to read this. I thought the first novella was kind of pointless and didn´t really do anything but I have to say the second one was really good and pretty important to read. Haha, my advice would be skip reading Shadow Me and simply read Reveal Me.