What’s not to love? There’s Draconus, Anomander Rake, Silchas Ruin and Jaghuts – almost all my favorite things in one place.Don’t listen to anyone in the reviews that say this book is OK to read without having first read the Malazan Book of the Fallen. This book is great because we (MBotF “veterans”) have already spent so much time in the Malazan world – these are people we already know and love (or hate). The beauty of FoD is that (in general) we already know what happens and we know who lives and dies. We’ve invested significant time and emotion into this, and it’s discovering how it all started that makes this book amazing. If you don’t have the context from the other books, you’ll be reading an entirely different story than the rest of us. You’ll “meet” Anomander and Silchas and they will be nothing to you. You’ll see a name like Scara Bandaris and you will not be hit with a jolt of recognition. You’ll see a character who makes a blood vow to Anomander and you will not feel a sudden stab of pain in your heart knowing how that ends. Trust me – start with Gardens of the Moon if you want to read Erikson.If you have read MBotF, but not FoD, I don’t think you’ll be disappointed. I have seen that people seem to complain more about this book than the others. I’m not sure why - it is in my top three of the series. The book does end in the middle of things – kind of like the ending of Dust of Dreams - but I kind of expected that. We all already know what the story arc is and what events need to happen to finish the trilogy. I think maybe a lot of people wanted a huge Erikson-style convergence at the end? To be fair I did think the last 25% of the book was the least interesting. This is probably an unpopular opinion, but I felt that is where the book got super bogged down with the boring philosophizing monologues (which I skipped) and there were too much time spent on all the little skirmishes the outlaws were doing – how many times do I need descriptions of killing the Deniers or village people. I thought it was getting repetitive a bit. I get it – these guys are bad, they are doing bad things (and getting away with it). Maybe another issue for some is that FoD doesn't have the humor of the other books – but we do have Jaghuts proving some comic relief. Haut is my surprise favorite character, and there's a scene with him and Korya and Varandas that was my favorite scene of the book.Bottom line for this book – It will deliver on your expectations to start getting answers – and not just answers that start a new mystery but some solid answers to some big questions. That said, you’ll also be left with more questions too. You will for sure have some moments that shock you and some where you’ll feel like pieces are starting to fall into place.Below is 100% spoilers about this book – It's mostly thoughts and questions that I am putting to "paper" to reference later when the other books are out.Random thoughts•	Mother Dark seems so lame – I always thought she seemed pathetic in the MBotF and she seems that way here too. I don’t understand why anyone would want to worship her.•	Urusander seemed a blind fool allowing himself to be used in this book - Osserc always seemed like such a pussy in the main books and obviously he was always that way – I always though L’Oric was a bit of the same so clearly like father, like son, like son.•	While I generally do not care for all the philosophy in SE’s books, there were a few lines that really hit me in the heart:o	Draconus said to Arathan “you have no cause to love me” and Arathan replies “I did not know love needed a cause”o	Haral – when contemplating the horrible things he’d done said, “there had been a boy once, not ugly”OMG moments•	Envy and Spite – what the fuck…seriously...I was shocked. They were selfish bitches in MBotF, but they were straight up evil psychopaths here. No wonder they were so scared of their father when they found out he was in Moons Spawn in OST.•	The Tiste all started out white/tan skinned - all the same people•	How the hell did Sechul Lath and Errastas make it through from FoD to the end of TCG and still be alive - how did they avoid never being called into account for their murder of Karish•	The entire wedding party attack scene surprised the hell out of me - I always thought that Andarist was married before "the bad thing" happened•	Finding out that Draconus basically created Mother Dark and he created the KG gate and unintentionally was responsible for the death of Hood’s wife•	The Lord of Hate was Gothos – I feel like I should have seen that coming.•	T’Riss coming out of the Vitr – not knowing who she was – and then she creates the Liossans•	The discovery of Burn in the underground temple – that section was beautiful and had me tearing up in places.•	The mother of Spite/Envy/Malice is Olar Ethil – that was a shock – and in retrospect shouldn’t have been surprising•	Seeing the beginning of the Caladan Brood/Anomander friendship – especially knowing how that endedQuestions unanswered:•	The split between Anomander and Andarist seems so wrong. It’s the complete opposite of everything we know about Andomader that he would give up a beloved brother over a sword – UNLESS – that isn’t the real reason for the split between the two? There was a scene in one of the later Malazan books that was a flashback of the three brothers meeting up and discussing what they needed to do and that they all had to do their part no matter how hard – and Silchas had tears in his eyes (I think). Did they meet up at least once after the split for the good of the TA?•	Scara Bandaris – how did he turn into Scabandaris Bloodeye and what happened to make him stab Silchas in the back?•	Now that we know the Purake brothers aren’t really children of MD and we know they had a mother they don’t want to talk about – is that significant? Why don’t they want to talk about her? Is there more coming on that?•	Korya Delath is a Myhbe to accomplish what? How does Quick Ben fit in – he has Andii ties and a similar name. She had the Jaghut soul shifting dolls, she was told by Haut she would live forever - it’s too many things that tie them together to be coincidence.•	The neutral people become the Tiste Edur? Scabandari, Tulas Shorn, Sukul?•	Who is Arathan’s mother?•	Who is Arathan in MBotF? If he’s even still around – is he Icarium? Gothos son figuratively but not really in blood?• Who is Arathan child going to be?• if Arathan isn’t Icarium where is he? Is he going to show up? IMO - He’s too important a character to not be in this triology and his backstory seems to fit with this time frame - and his origin story demands more explanation (as does Gothos)•	Will we see Rhaest?•	What happens between Killy and Draconus that makes him kill her at the end of MBotF•	Question for the Karsa triology – will Hood and his crew be going after Errastas for what they did to his wife?•	There is a scene in TtH where we know something bad happens to Sandalath as a hostage – what was it? Who is the father of Korlat?•	We know that Tulas Shorn creates the hounds – does that have anything to do with the Jhelack hostages that Silchas was sending to him? (they were jokingly called “the hounds”)•	Is the Azanthani “Old Man” someone we know in MBotF- maybe Ruthan Gudd? Or maybe Grizzlin Farr is Ruthan? Are one of them Edgewalker? If not, who is Edgewalker?•	Why didn’t Silchas change color? When asked if he meant his vow when he kneeled to MD he seemed non-committal.•	Is the High King mentioned Kallor? Seemed way too early for him. Why was Draconus so angry hearing about him? Could the High King be Mael? He's one of the few known old gods that didn't have a part in FoD beyond a one mention of his kingdom being far away. We know the Lethari continent (if that's what it's called) has strong ties to the Andii and Edur - we know Mael has an ancient temple there (and K'Rul)- so it makes sense that Mael might end up involved in some way.•	Who is the Sister of Cold Nights? Is she just not in this book, or does someone in this book becomes her? Itwas Draconus/KRul/Sister of Cold Nights that defeated him and Sister of Cold Nights was also not in FoD and I'm starting to think she's someone who isn't around yet (and another reason Kallor can't be the High King). I read somewhere that the SoCN could be "Zombie Enesdia"•	What are the words in Nimanders tomb and under the bridge? Also how did Nimander's father die - there was a mention of it being an odd death or not honorable (something like that)•	What will Olar Ethil’s stone figurine do for Arathan when he uses it?•	Who is Osserc and Rener’s child going to be? Jaedan (was that her name – L’Oric’s sister?)•	What is in Draconus’ locked tower at his keep – that locked room was mentioned several times•	Why the hell would Anomander and Envy ever end up as lovers – she’s psychotic – Anomander is so much better than that.•	We’ve met Sheltata and Sukul – who is Menadore?•	Is Narad more than just a new character? Are there any other important Tiste Edur people that haven’t been introduced?