"'We do bones, motherfucker,' she said."So What's It About?"Brought up by unfriendly, ossifying nuns, ancient retainers, and countless skeletons, Gideon is ready to abandon a life of servitude and an afterlife as a reanimated corpse. She packs up her sword, her shoes, and her dirty magazines, and prepares to launch her daring escape. But her childhood nemesis won’t set her free without a service.Harrowhark Nonagesimus, Reverend Daughter of the Ninth House and bone witch extraordinaire, has been summoned into action. The Emperor has invited the heirs to each of his loyal Houses to a deadly trial of wits and skill. If Harrowhark succeeds she will be become an immortal, all-powerful servant of the Resurrection, but no necromancer can ascend without their cavalier. Without Gideon’s sword, Harrow will fail, and the Ninth House will die.Of course, some things are better left dead."What I ThoughtI don't think this review will JUST be me raining onGideon the Ninth's parade, but there is definitely going to be some rain.  While it has a tremendously awesome premise and follows through brilliantly in a number of ways, there are still a lot of problems that took away from my enjoyment of the book as a whole.Put simply, there are some definite issues with pacing and world-building. While I was reading this book a friend on Goodreads posted an update about a third of the way through saying that nothing had really happened yet. Someone commented that hey, aesthetic (TM) was happening! To which my friend replied that it's possible to have plot and aesthetic happen at the same time. I couldn't agree more with that, and I definitely agree that very little happens in the first third of the book besides getting to the palace and learning bits and pieces about the cast of characters. Once the plot picks up it's great, but it leaves you with a significant portion of the book to slog through before getting there.My main concern, though, is the sparse world-building. There is so much we don't know about Gideon's world - for one, how exactly does the magic work? Occasionally a necromancer will make vague allusions to technical terms, but beyond the ability to draw power from other people I never felt like I understood what they were talking about. It's also a significant problem to me that we never really learn about the differences between each of the houses - they each have a little description in the front of the book, but I never felt like these differences were expanded upon in a meaningful way in the text. We know what the Ninth does, but nothing significant about the other houses.There are also a lot of characters in this book, too, and I'll admit that I struggled to keep track of all but a few of them and had apathetic feelings towards everyone except Gideon and Dulcinea. Many of the characters from other houses felt to me like they were just bodies to spout a few quippy lines and then turn up dead and eviscerated later. Maybe it's asking more than is fair to expect an author to deeply characterize the number of characters that appear in this book so I don't want to do that, necessarily - rather, I'll just note that sometimes the characterization that did happen fell flat to me and when you read it there may be lots of flipping to the front of the book to keep everyone straight.Another bone I have to pick (sorry I'm sorry) is related to the pop culture references that characters make over the course of the book. At one point Gideon quotes Mean Girls, and Harrow references the meme "While you were X I was studying the blade." "That's what she said" makes an appearance. I think this kind of humor may be something that you either love or hate and it decidedly wasn't for me.Overall, though,Gideon the Ninth's humor is one of its strongest suits. Gideon herself is a wonderful protagonist with an absolute intolerance for the necromancer's self-important nonsense and a delightful sense of humor:"'This calls for rigor, Nav.''Maybe rigor … mortis,' said Gideon, who assumed that puns were funny automatically."I found myself smiling throughout most of the book just because I liked Gideon so much and found it to be such a treat to be inside her head. The other thing that this book absolutely nails is that aforementioned aesthetic, there is absolutely no denying that.  The setting is wonderfully ruined and decrepit, oppressive and mournful, and it's clear that necromancy is a fascinatingly grim business:“The unperceivable howl of ten thousand million unfed ghosts who will hear each echoed footstep as defilement. They would not even be satisfied if they tore you apart. The space beyond that door is profoundly haunted in ways I cannot say, and by means you won’t understand; and you may die by violence, or you may simply lose your soul.”Finally, as I mentioned previously, once the plot gets going it's an enjoyable murder mystery and builds to a fantastic, exciting conclusion.The blurb on the cover promises lesbian necromancers in space, and while that is technically what you get I can't say I was totally satisfied with the execution. Gideon's love for women is wonderfully written, but as for the romance/not-romance with Harrow, I just don't buy the growth from this:"If you do anything that suggests we’re out of order—if I even think you’re about to…” Here Harrow shrugged, quite calmly. “I’ll kill you.”to this:“I owe you your life,” said Harrowhark, “I owe you everything.”I've seen some people criticize the troubling power dynamic and general nastiness that goes down between the two of them (that is something that I myself originally criticized) but I now think it's fair to point out that fictional gay relationships are often held to really high levels of moral scrutiny while readers then turn around and coo over the week's latest negging boundary-crossing bad boy in a straight fictional relationship. I have read many reviews of this series that really appreciate how Muir writes messy, disastrous queer girls in messy, disastrous queer relationships. My current gripe isn't that it fails to be aspirational; it's just that I didn't really buy the emotional beats that did develop.I read a couple of reviews that argued that the ending of the book counts as Bury Your Gays, and I guess it's technically true that a gay couple(ish?) gets separated when one of them dies. HOWEVER, Bury Your Gays doesn't include every time a gay character dies in fiction - that the trope is specifically about outsider writers punishing gay characters, treating them as being more disposable than straight characters or exploiting their suffering. I don't think Muir does any of these things. If that doesn't convince you, I think there's also a place for queer creators to reclaim the tropes that have been used against them, which Tamsyn Muir talks about that inthisreally great interview. Alsooooo, since this is a story about necromancy I am 100% sure that there are going to be more shenanigans with this particular character in the next book.