I'm not even going to waste anyone's time with my rambling. Here's some of my favorite scenes…"What about the hotel, Violet?" Vance asks with a little impatience."If you're not going to do anything with it, I was wondering if I could buy it from you."Another round of blinks."If you want the hotel you can have it. I was going to use it as a neutral location, but never got around to it," he tells her."It'll still be neutral. Promise. But I have to buy it. I'd feel indebted to you otherwise. And I know the fair cost based on Tiara's research-""You don't sound drunk," Vance notes."I'm not drunk. I haven't had a drink."Now I want to watch those videos again with that new knowledge, because no one can be that shamelessly ridiculous while sober."Can I buy it from you or is it too important?" she goes on."It's not too important, but I don't want your money. You won't have enough for a fair offer, simply due to the location.""Sounds interesting," I butt in. "Know what else is interesting?"I dramatically gesture to the pregnant debacle we still have on our hands.He sighs harshly."I have the money. I have enough enough in my bank account for that, and I won't even have to dig any up," she tells him, causing me to shake my head, as I stare up at the ceiling.Priorities are a bit fickle these days, because I thought she was struggling with her finances just a few months ago. This girl…Vance essentially says around what I'm thinking. "When you first came to town, you couldn't even hire a delivery person. Now you suddenly have enough money to-""The money is/wasmy late grandmother's money, so I've been saving it. She was loaded because she invented some sort of really popular toothbrush design, so I have plenty of money. You don't just sink a ton of money into a new business. You work it up until it's paying for itself so it doesn't become a financial drain."Vance opens his mouth, then closes it, and then opens it again."That's why you made toothpaste," he says like he's solved a very important puzzle."It definitely gave me the idea," she states as the music in the background gets louder for a second, before dulling again, as though someone has left or entered the room she's in."Whenever someone asks you about it, you always say how you came to make toothpaste isn't an interesting story," he argues."Took five seconds for you to figure it out on your own from one sentence. I don't think that constitutes it as being very interesting," she deadpans. "Can I buy the hotel for my new tribe?"Vance releases a breath, as he continues to stare at the downed shifter."You can't keep them, Violet," he tells her gently. "They belong to Idun, and she'll have it no other way.""I've got all that covered. Can I buy it or not?""Of course you can buy it. I want to give it to you. But you can't-""Mary is going to send over the formal paperwork via email and get a date set for the closing. Thank you," she says sweetly. "And be careful while hunting Idun."She hangs up after that, and Vance stares down at his phone."This day just keeps getting worse. Violet's already too attached to them," he groans."We'll deal with that later. What about the pregnant shifter who knows too damn much?" I ask him, my patience fraying.He pauses like a thought has just occurred to him. "You always carry around a portrait of Idun in your pocket?"Un-fucking-believable. He's so distracted and unfocused that his mind can't stay trained on the problem at hand."I carry around a portrait of thenecklace. Did you not hear me when I said how hard it was to even get the stone's impossibly-hard-to-recreate-details that close? And the portrait is damage-proof to withstand time, so it's not as though I could hack her face off like a lovesick pup after a hard break."His phone rings again, while the woman on the floor remains unattended."Violet?" he asks into the phone, turning his back on me again."Yeah, me again. Sorry. But this time I do need an actual favor, since you're the pilot with all the girl-named planes. I sort of need to get a lot of people oversees. Is it okay if I call your hangar and work something out?""Idun will nest in Shadow Hills, so it's not like they won't be coming over anyway," I remind him, since he wanted to argue this earlier."Yes. Of course," he tells her all too easily, despite his earlier objections. "Pay me in apples for that one."I'm starting to think he can't deny her directly. The prideful Van Helsing is fucking whipped. I'll mock him for it later, and settle for grinning about it now"I'm going to need to save my apples for now, but I have something you'll appreciate.""If it's lacy and black I'm in for that one as well. Dibs on the Devil's three-way this time, I tell him very seriously.He gestures to the pregnant shifter's belly, giving me a silencing look."It's not likeitknows what I'm saying," I dutifully inform him.And I thought Emit was stupid.Vance pinches the bridge of his nose briefly, something he does when someone is irritating him, before returning his attention to the phone call.~"If you don't stop laughing-"Anna brays like a donkey with her next bout of laughter, as though my demand for her to quit mocking me right now is only fueling her hysterics."Y-y-you're walking funny a-a-after fucking like a champion during a three-day sex-a-thon, and you expectmeto resist having a commentary?" Anna asks me through her guffaws, quite literally rolling on the ground, as she zaps from place to place in front of my uneven strides.I glare at her, as she slaps at the ground, her hand passing through, as she feigns wiping tears from her eyes."It hurts when my thighs touch!" I hiss, idly wondering if my vagina will ever heal."I'msoproud of you," she says, clapping for me, as I waddle by her on my way to the front door.Just my touch ignites Mom's magic, and the doors open.Sighing in frustration, I try to walk as normal as I possibly can, wearing nothing but the curtain cape, and…come to an abrupt halt wheneveryonein the lobby stops to stare at me.Looks like we have some newbies, because I don't know all the faces.A few tremble and drop to their knees, while Shera approaches with a glare and a wrinkled nose."You disappear for three days and return smelling like foul wolf sex? Seriously?!" she snaps, punching the bridge of her nose. "Omegas have been lining up to join Sanctuary, and you've been off getting laid?" she adds on an irritable growl.Speaking of omegas…Leiza's eyes widen, and she drops to the ground, abruptly bowing before me. Lemon, Mary, and Tiara all have the same fast reaction."Why are they bowing at your feet?" Shera asks more seriously.I bristle not liking where this looks like it's heading. Those scars on my back don't look like they're going to be healing, regardless of the healing potions I've used on them. I weirdly don't mind the scars, but…what do they really mean?"I have a lot of questions," I tell the omegas, who give small, short nods, not speaking, as they remain bowed on the ground.I notice a few others quickly dropping and bowing to me as well, though they do so with terrified trembles."This is neat. Do those scars make you royalty or something? They can't even see them," Anna states from atop a banister near us."After I shower, I'll see the four of you. Find Ingrid. I want her there too. And make sure the new wolves who've claimed sanctuary aren't afraid of me, regardless of whatever in the hell has happened," I add.Leiza clears her throat. "As you wish.""Oooooh, she said that like you're royalty!" Anna gushes."What have you done now, Violet?" Shera asks in a worried tone. "All I smell is a lot of werewolf sex. Have you even showered?""Not in three days. Emit wouldn't let her out of his dastardly clutches," Anna supplies on a wistful, romantic sigh."I could use a-"A very pretty red cocktail is thrust in front of me by an omega I've yet to formally meet, and her hand trembles as she waits on me to accept it."Thank you," I tell her with a smile.She nods, eyes wider than they already were, and darts off without another word.Shera shakes her head like the distraction is too annoying to deal with, and she hands the iPad to me. "I have so many things for you to look over and sign, and -hey!Where do you think you're going?" she shouts as I start walking off."To take a long, cleansing shower, so people will hopefully stop being weird around me," I answer without looking back, waddling my way up the stairs.When I whimper, Anna snorts out a laugh."I hate you," I inform her."Only because I love your pain," she volleys.~My head is killing me. Arion is fussing over a damn shifter baby he has strapped to his chest, which only makes my headache worse. There's no more disturbing sight than seeing Arion play father to a shifter child.Our world used to make more sense than it does.How does one fucking woman change so much?The child wails like he's just woken up in a den full of alpha monsters, who are natural predators of his race, due to years of evolving wars and hereditary senses.It's a nightmare to deal with the fallouts of our own prejudices mixed with magical DNA."Why on earth did you think it'd be a good idea to bring a helpless infant into a circle of alphas?" I snap.Emit groans as he devours yet another hamburger from one of the twenty bags he has.Arion's head falls back, and I can't help but find it amusing that this psychotic son of a bitch is working so hard to keep his temper and frustration levels in check. His eyes haven't even turned black yet.Must be a nightmare for a bloodthirsty, murderous fiend such as himself.I derive a lot of joy from that. Enough to make the headache bearable.With his brow still drawn down in concentration, Damien says, "I'm still stuck on the part where he's an impossible mix of vampire and a shift-""I'll believe anything at this point," Emit interrupts, working on his next burger. "Was this pointless meeting about the kid? If so, I need to get back to Violet. I want to share a bed with her for something other than sex, so that she doesn't misread my intentions. The omegas have filled her in by now, and I want to see what she has to say about it. Hopefully they've sold her on it, because they're damn good at silver linings and romanticism.""Cheater," Damien mutters."Says the prick who tasked his desperate beta-prospect to get you laid," Emit volleys."I thought I was making progress all in my own, before you assholes got jealous and interrupted our moment," Damien adds on a bitter note.Rolling my eyes, I pop more of the useless pills. My headache is growing mire tedious by the second."Jasper isn't the reason I'm here," Arion says in distraction, as he reads something off his phone. To himself, he mutters,"Pacifier. Pacifier. What the bloody hell is a pacifier?"Damien leans over, lifting the oddly shaped thing, and plugs it into the intimidated babe's mouth. The child isn't going to stop that wailing when he's stuck in a room with alphas that painfully enlist his instincts to-The crying ceases immediately, and the intriguing young thing actually stares up at Arion with wide, fearless eyes now that he's been left content.The wee lad got what he wanted."She's spoiled the little crier. He apparently screams until you do what he says, and he hasn't even learned to speak yet," Emit states in observation.My headache only marginally eases.I'm not sure why we're all staring at the baby like it's going to burst into flames or something."It's scary having this sort of responsibility. Anything at all-big or small-happens to that baby on our watch, and Violet will definitely be angry for many,manycenturies, depending on the severity of the infraction," Damien points out. "Take it back. It's too much trouble.""The vampire is more nurturing than the fucking Morpheous. Why do I bother trying to make sense of things anymore? I think that's the reason for the increasingly frequent migraines," I confess on a tired sigh.I massage my temples to punctuate the point, suppressing a groan."Fuck's sake, Arion. Get him out of that contraption," Emit growls as he goes to unstrap Jasper from the weird chest strappings. "Babies need connection when they're held."The small lad almost disappears into the massive trunks Emit calls arms."The kid is going to suffocate between those rock walls you're so proud of," Damien gripes, as he goes to snatch the baby away, showing far more knowledge of proper care than any of us should know.He even goes so far as to rattle off a few instructions about head, neck, and body support.It's a little eerie to find Arion's eyes on me when I glance away from the weird sight of Emit and Damien arguing about who knows more about kids.~I hate him for doing this to me, but he already knows I love him. So I don't actually hate him at all, because…My head is entirely too fucked up, and I need to stop thinking."Arion, we're going to need the alpha vampire for this problem, if you're quite finished being a selfish son of a bitch with our girlfriend," Damien calls out, apparently forgetting we're still broken up.I really do need better boundaries.Also, I need stronger resolve or something.Arion's lips kiss along my throat, and they slide over mine, just barely brushing, as his gaze stays devoted to me. There's a breathless moment where he conveys so much with that lost, yet content, look.It's the same look he gave me the first time we had sex.As though he's found something he didn't know existed and doesn't know how to treasure it properly.Or…I'm a romantic idiot, who is reading way too much into it."I'll make you my bride, Violet Carmine. And when I do, you'll love every fucking second of it. You have a month to adjust to that warning before I make it a reality. Find a way to make peace with that," he says before he practically vanishes, leaving my mind rushing after the really crazy shit he just said like it wasn't a big deal.Emit is beside me and pulling me against him, running his lips up my neck, and cradling me to him. He nuzzles me, affectionately snuggling against me, as I continue to reel from Arion's parting words."He ruins all the fun when he says crazy shit," Emit says on a sigh. "But you do continuously reward bad behavior," he points out.I blink up at him, still too stunned for words. Arion was so serious that I believe he really did threaten to force me to be his bride, and to ultimately get over it if I have any objections.I have no idea how I feel about this, since it sounded far more endearing the last time he mentioned it. Before he gave me a deadline and made it such a reality."How do you feel about being my mate?" Emit asks too abruptly.These guys…I swear…