If Half a King was Abercrombie attempting YA with mixed success this is Abercrombie transcending the genre. The nuance of the characterisation, the immersive nature of the setting and the intelligence, subtlety and depth of this story puts most adult fantasy books, nevermind YA, to shame.One aspect that diverged from Abercrombie's usual fare was the setting. I've always considered world-building to be Abercrombie's Achilles Heel (The Union/Renaissance Europe, The Wild West in Red Country and Gurkhal/generic evil Islamic Empire were all particularly terrible) but in this I found his take on a Viking era Scandinavia in the midst of a post-apocalyptic version of our world (the subtle hints to which were brilliantly done) to be incredibly immersive. The violent, gritty and chaotic Viking world of the Dark Ages is a perfect fit for Abercrombie (reminiscent of his previous best setting, The North) while other cultures; Kalyiv (Kiev, Medieval Russia), The First of Cities (Constantinople, The Byzantine Empire) and The Steppe People (the err...Steppe People) were deftly and richly drawn in their brief appearances. I also found the references to the 'Elf' artefacts and the 'Breaking of the World' to be especially intriguing. What exactly happened to tear the world apart like this?This book was fronted by 2 strong leads. Thorn is a copy of Shy South who was a copy of Monza who was a watered down version of Ferro (I'm not the only one who thinks Abercrombie is really reliant on the tough, stubborn warrior-woman trope am I?) but at least the characteristic immaturity makes more sense in a teenager than a grown-ass woman. She's also by far the most likeable and engaging incarnation so far. Even with my cynicism about Abercrombie's over-use of the character type though Thorn's brilliantly written snarky dialogue, badassery, endearing stubbornness and occasional intelligent introspection made her really easy to root for. (Note: While it's more a side-note than anything I did find her fighting skills to be eye-rolling a lot of the time. I was willing to write it off as a YA-ism but given Abercrombie's otherwise consistent portrayal of a realistic world everywhere else throughout this book it was jarring that a teenage girl with a preference for not wearing armour and duel wielding a sword and axe (everyone's favourite unrealistic combat trope) was able to easily beat heavily armoured, fully grown men who had been training their entire lives as warriors.) For me Brand is the real star of this one. After reading Abercrombie's 6 main works last year I was frustrated by his chronic over-use of scarred, cynical warriors as MC. As such Brand's good-hearted, naive noob is a massive breath of fresh air and I really appreciate how Abercrombie has stepped out of his comfort zone here.The secondary characters in this one were also great. After being underwhelmed by him in his role as lead character in the last one Yarvi was awesome in this one. The numerous descriptions of him as a 'deep cunning man' were borne out by his intelligent and morally ambiguous plotting, the scope and subtlety of which is unmatched in most adult fantasy books. Queen Laithlin was also an awesome character. I really appreciated how Abercrombie was able to show that a woman in this universe doesn't have to be a warrior to be powerful and dangerous (in this regard she reminded me of my favourite Abercrombie female character and one of my favourite characters in general, Finree from 'The Heroes'). Skifr was an interesting character although she sometimes fell too neatly into the aging, mysterious mentor trope. I also found the training regime that she used to turn Thorn into Rambo jr. to be really cliched and kind of unbelievable (it doesn't seem possible to make all that much forward progress when you're training is only done in short periods of time in between exhausting rowing on an arduous journey). The cast was also filled out by countless other likeable and interesting characters: Rin, Brand's loving sister with a genius for metalworking (sidenote: it's been a while since I read about it but iirc her method of producing awesome swords was the same used to produce the legendary Damascus steel irl during the Viking era, which, if true, is an awesome touch). Rulph, the sturdy, reliable former pirate from the last book. Fror, the veteran warrior who's explanations for his horrific scarring are always hilarious.The plot in this one was filled with awesome adventure, devious plots and some great action (a battle scene featuring a shield wall was particularly memorable). Overall the plot of this one captured the best elements of YA; a fun, enjoyable adventure with plenty of likeable characters and combined it with some of the best elements of dark, adult fantasy: believable world-building, flawed, realistic characters and morally complex situations without any obvious good or bad. Despite a bit of mild swearing and quite a bit of violence this was definitely a lot more child-friendly than Abercrombie's previous work. The tone was also more lighter and more positive than his previous work (even Half a King which overall was much more YA than this) with things working out fairly well for the heroes. For me Abercrombie has surpassed any of his previous work by managing to write an intelligent, morally ambiguous story without having to rely on swearing, gore and a series of bad things happening to the heroes to make it 'grimdark'.There is one aspect of his writing that returns although I would prefer it didn't; awkward 'romance' scenes. While these aren't as graphic as some of his other scenes (this being YA and all) Abercrombie reminds us why he is the 'King of Romance' with lines like: "Her lips were scummy, and her mouth was sour, and he didn’t care." For the most part I really like Abercrombie's gritty, cynical style however there are a few parts where I think the 'grit' is badly done. The sex scenes are definitely one of those aspects. In addition to some being especially uncomfortable to read (Jezal-Ardee remains the worst) pretty much all the other ones are also really awkward (the only exception I can think of is Calder and his wife at the start of 'The Heroes'). tbh if your sex life is as unpleasant, confusing and snot-filled as seemingly everyone's in Abercrombie's world..you're doing it wrong :DOverall this was a gripping read that has completely changed my view of Abercrrombie's ability to write YA. After being disappointed by his last attempt the expert characterisation, immersive setting and mature, intelligent plot of this one has reminded me why Abercrombie is one of my very favourite authors working at the minute and left me genuinely psyched to read the final instalment of this trilogy.