I’d originally given this installment five stars but, on further reflection,I've decided that this is actually a three-star read.This was a very enjoyable story. That said, because this was a Nora Roberts novel, there was much about which to be annoyed.First, the budding romance between Fallon and Duncan is problematic on several levels. On top of the promiscuous male/virginal girl trope, Roberts legitimates the notion of sexist derision and sexual violence as romantic.Nora Roberts is, first and foremost, a romance writer. I knew going in that Fallon would end up with a protective male who would overrule her “whether she liked it or not” and go all macho bodyguard in situations that she, the armed and highly trained heroine, would have under control. I fully expect to skim these scenes in book three.As is typical of a Nora Roberts romance, the male love interest is an asshole (soooo haawt!) and the female protagonist is off balance.Duncan is dismissive of and disrespectful to Fallon throughout the entire book, from the "girl witch" barbs to the rapy "you didn't say no" comments after committing sexual battery.More importantly, his “flashing” into her bedroom in the middle of the night and not even pretending to be apologetic about catching her naked is highly inappropriate. What does he do instead? He responds to her outrage and embarrassment by sneering and remarking that she’s no competition for the other naked girls he’s seen.And I get that Nora Roberts’s "potential" couples typically hate and mistrust each other on sight, but his treatment of Fallon really grated, most especially because she'd saved everyone's life at least twice before.Honestly, Edward Cullen is more respectful.I immediately read his assholishness as jealousy and macho pride; he wants to be the big hero but he isn't. Worst still, the one who is destine to save everyone is a "girl witch." Waaaa; my masculinity hurts!Second, in addition to being a soft, male worshiping twit, Lana Bingham/Fallon/Swift is an over-emotional and overbearing worry-wart of a parent whose hovering functions to undermine her daughter’s heroism.One of the best things about Most authors’ (Ilona Andrews, J. K Rowling, PC Cast, etc.) treatment of YA warriors is that for the most part, they don’t write in helicopter parents who make rules and insert themselves where they have no business.Lana’s (Simon, at least, gets it) refusal to allow her child to do a single thing alone goes beyond normal maternal concern and straight into crippling territory. She breathes down Fallon's neck and expects to be asked for permission every time she needs to take the necessary steps toward the battle for which she’d been preparing her entire life.How does she expect Fallon to fight with any degree of confidence if she doesn’t trust her judgment or abilities? How does she expect things to turn out if she doesn’t encourage Fallon to trust them?In fact, Fallon is much better suited for battle than her mother who, as she states her self in this and the previous book, quashed her gifts in favor of looking “pretty” for Max and being a domestic goddess for Simon.Lana pitches a fit because Fallon "[underestimates]" her, but what Lana forgets is that she’s done nothing but model the defenseless, emotionally dependent homemaker for her. Fallon grew up watching Simon protecting her mother from everything from hurt feelings to worry.Lana stayed home and cooked, gardened, and baked while Simon and others defended the Farm and nearby village from raiders and PWs.Were I Fallon, I wouldn’t allow her within 100 feet of any kind of fighting, and I sure as hell wouldn’t run any of my decisions by her.There just isn’t time to reassure Lana, answer 500 questions, or hear her list of rules; time is of the essence, and they have to move. She chose to bring her child into a ruined world and needs to buck up and deal with the danger that this child must face.Going away and training with someone who wasn’t Lana was the best thing for Fallon because, had she stayed home, she might never have developed the necessary courage and self-confidence to lead her army into this very important battle.don't get me wrong; I loved this book, but the Noraisms (Noraisms specifically meaning overprotective, high-handed people, long, drawn out apologies to people who deserve the treatment they get, a general inability or unwillingness to stand up for one’s self or protect one’s autonomy, and the low-grade perpetuation of rape culture) made me want to chew rusty nails.Ultimately, I'm taking off one star for Duncan, and another for Lana.The romance should have waited until book three, and Lana needed to A, prove her fitness for battle beyond the "I get so angry and protective that the power explodes" tricks and B, back the hehll off and allow her daughter to wield her power the way she saw fit.