✨ April 27th, 2020 ✨These books have been so formative to me as a reader, writer, and person for so many years, and it’s surreal to realize that the series ends in just a month and a few days. I’ve grown up hand in hand with these characters— I’ve navigated new school hallways with my paperback carefully tucked in my bag, made my first internet friends in forums on the author’s website, and traveled to my first book conventions in New York City and Charleston because of these stories. Over the years, I’ve recognized so many facets of myself in Sophie, Agatha, and Tedros, and I’ve found my own insecurities and conflicts mirrored in their relationships with one another. I’ve taken solace in their beauty and imperfections, appreciating the validation that their duality brought to me during those scary and magical moments that define growing up.Now, as I graduate high school and prepare to begin college in the fall, it only makes sense that my childhood friends also graduate school and prepare to face the woods ahead of them, but that doesn’t make this release date all feel any less strange. I’m going to miss these kids. <3✨June 3rd, 2020✨I finished the book at 1:30 am last night, and oh my god, I sobbed! I genuinely could not have dreamed of a better conclusion to this series, and I feel so grateful to have gotten such a good ending to a story that matters this much to me. The book was beautiful, bittersweet, satisfying, and so, so rewarding.It’s been a heavy and challenging year for everyone -- I mean, I was supposed to have my graduation ceremony last night. I've been struggling to get myself moving forward again in the absence of normal rituals, but I think this book is what I needed to finally feel ready for whatever comes next. Closing the back cover of One True King felt an awful lot like closing this chapter of my life -- like some sense of closure.I really owe so much to this story.✨June 8th, 2020✨Okay, initial heartache and nostalgia aside, there's so much gold in this book to dig up and appreciate, and I think I'm finally in the right headspace to do so! Yay! I might even take a highlighter and pen to my copy for annotating in a week or two... just no one tell my 13-year-old self, who I can already hear shrieking in the back of my mind "bOOK CRIME!"SPOILERS AHEAD. CONSIDER YOURSELF WARNED. <3One True King definitely abides by its infamous SGE branding and supplies many wild twists and turns. Even the few events and deaths that I knew absolutely had to happen were written in such a creative and backwards way that when they did unfold, I still found myself surprised. To name one in particular...M E R L I NIt's no surprise that Merlin is a favorite of mine (you can find me on Instagram as @merlins_celestium), but still, I knew he couldn't survive the ending. That's just the way of middle grade and young adult literature: the main character(s) lose their mentors before or during the final battle. We've seen this happen numerous times before in SGE with Professor Sader, Lady Lesso, Callis, and Professor Dovey, and Agatha even makes a point of it while sitting with Guinevere (who also meets a tragic end, yikes) in One True King by remarking on how cruel her fairytale is to the grown-ups.And yet, Soman didn't kill off Merlin in the first few chapters, like I had expected him to. Instead, he limited Merlin's ability to aid the protagonists in their tests with the aging spell and kept wizard alive untilliterally the last line of the book. Not only was this trick smart and admirable, but aging Merlin backwards was one of my favorite parts of the story. It was immensely amusing to watch Agatha and Tedros try to parent (their old teacher, nonetheless), and Merlin's commentary as he grew older added so much to scenes and dialogue. It also made me realize what a terrific mother Agatha would make, which was so lovely to seewithoutany sort of cheesy and overdone epilogue.This all goes to say that when Merlin eventually did die at the end, I actually found myself surprised! Even though this was the one thing I went into the book expecting would happen, I got so caught up in the story and Merlin's hilarious adventures as a teenager that I completely forgot that his time as an old man was dwindling and that couldn’t, in fact, survive the book. And I don't know if anyone else had this experience, but his death reminded me an awful lot of the end of Les Mis? Whatever truly did me in, I ugly cried for those last two pages. "The work is done?" Damn.T E D R O SFor me, the more I love something, the harder I find it to explain why. So, this section will be short.Tedros definitely wasn't my favorite character at the start of the series, but the Camelot Years really fleshed him out and showed us a side to him that had me 100% falling in love. These three books became his coming-of-age saga, and he's grown so much from the insecure and foolish little boy that we first met back in book one -- it warms my heart so much. I amfiercelyproud of everything that he has accomplished over the course of all six books, and goddamnit, he deserves that crown. Camelot is lucky to have him as a leader. (He even pulled a f*ucking Jesus in the end! Holy cow! He did that! )I wish I could give him a hug. :’)R E L A T I O N S H I P SSpeaking of Tedros, the Tagatha in this novel was TOP NOTCH. These kids have been endgame since book one, but the last few installments to the series really put their relationship through the wringer. All of the bickering and miscommunication has Not been cute. I’m so happy that this book focused so much on them developing trust in their relationship, which was so sorely needed, and I was impressed by how well they grew together as a team. I finally feel confident that they're fit to rule a kingdom. They’ve learned a lot, and it’s so nice to see them happy. Merlin put it perfectly: they really are such wondrous souls. I think they'll make great rulers, and maybe parents, too.(That was a joke. Please. They can wait. They're, like, 17 or something. Please let them wait.)Not to mention, we finally got Hophie! I know that this pairing is somewhat controversial among readers, but I've been waiting on their ship to sail for years, so don't you DARE ruin this moment for me. This is the ending that Sophie deserved, that Hort deserved, and that we all deserved. You can’t convince me otherwise. I'm also stillsofragile from Hort's near-death experience, so just, don't talk to me for a while. Thank you.And FINALLY. THE MOMENT THAT WE’VE ALL BEEN WAITING FOR. Hester and Anadil. That's it. That's the review. I've been dying for confirmation on their relationship ever since all of their ridiculous flirting in the Ever Never Handbook, and I'm thrilled that we finally got it carved in as canon. Their banter in this book was amazing, incredible, show-stopping, marvelous, and had me swooning and giggling on every other page. All the "Ew, like an Ever Boy?" comments killed me, and all I have to say is that I better be invited to the wedding.S U R P R I S E SRafal being revealed as Japeth and Rhian's father hit me like a ton of bricks. Not only was I a) unabashedly shocked and b) horrified for poor Sophie, but also c) I felt absolutely awful for Rhian, who was lied to his entire life. I wish we could have resurrectedhim, Jesus Christ (pun intended). He really deserved better.Speaking of characters who deserved better, once the Queen referred to her daughter as Betty, I immediately made the connection to Bettina, and I had a sinking suspicion that things couldn't end well for her. We needed her Mother on our side, and Japeth murdering her daughter was quite effective in doing that. That said, I really wish we had gotten more of her character! She was really only alive for 20 pages before she kicked the bucket, but I still managed to absolutely fall in love with her. So. Who wants to start a Bettina and Rhian Deserved Better Campaign with me? We meet tomorrow at dawn.I also did NOT expect Chaddick to be the eldest son of King Arthur. Yes, it makes perfect sense in hindsight, and I feel like an absolute fool for not realizing it earlier, but oh my god.C L O S U R EOverall, the vibes in this book? Were immaculate. I haven't felt as blissfully immersed in a story as I did while reading this one for maybe years. The writing is just that phenomenal. When I read the last half for the first time on Tuesday night, the events felt so real, it was as if I were actually in the story. I completely forgot I was reading. I don't know when I’ll get to feel that way about a book next, as it’s been so long, but it was amazing while it lasted. These books are actual magic.I was also pleasantly surprised by how many loose ends were tied up, considering the scope of this series. The few things that were left unanswered felt purposeful and right, and the ending felt perfect. I liked that it still left a dash of mystery in its wake, since what the book chose to focus on and end with felt more powerful.This isn’t even to mention all the small moments throughout the book that made me pause to smile or cry. Hester responding to Dot's discovery about being Half-Ever with "Nobody's perfect" made me melt. Merlin's flashback to his last time with Tedros in the Ender Forest made me sob. Sophie picking up the piece of cake was so simple, yet so heartfelt! I find it funny that it’s these quiet moments that define as epic of a series as the School for Good and Evil for me, but it’s true -- they really do. These books make the most ambitious and grand fairytales feel magically intimate and personal for its readers. I’m sure Agatha and Sophie would be proud.