5 Big StarsPercepliquis the exciting conclusion to the Riyria Revelations by Michael Sullivan is one of the most fun fantasy reads that I have had the pleasure to read in quite some time. If you are new to this series or are unfamiliar with them, you should go pick up book one The Crown Conspiracy and get started. Funny thing about this series is that the author intended these to be standalone books that all share the same world and characters while not being part of today’s popular “epic” fantasy genre that consists of massive tomes, huge casts, and deep and convoluted back stories. However, the more the series progressed, the more we learn about our lovable cast, the long time line backstory (1000 years), and the incredible depth to the world building, the more this series became epic by default. Sure, each of the novels of the Riyria Revelations play out as great standalone novels that really do not require you to have read any of the others, however you would really be missing out on the pleasure of getting to know our somewhat intimate sized cast of protagonists and you would lose the opportunity of watching the growth of Michael J. Sullivan as an author.As a concluding novel to an epic series, Percepliquis really works. My only gripes about it is that one, it ends and thus our adventures with Royce and Hadrian with it, and two that things end up too tidy for my dark and twisted sense of right and wrong. I found the way that Sullivan closed so many long lived plot lines to be masterful. The way that so many of the previous novels turning points were pulled together made me hoot and holler. This is one fast read…It is pretty much non-stop action, tension, and excitement as the fate of the world and of our heroes are literally played out in this book. I stayed up late reading this book and did not want to put it down (I am a confessed baby that loves to sleep). What a pleasurable read.Sullivan has done what I feel is the single most important thing a novelist must accomplish, and that is to create a cast, an adventure, or a plot that is memorable. The Riyria Revelations is filled with incredibly memorable characters and led the way by the amazing thieving duo of Hadrian and Royce. These two will stay with me for a long time and now sit on a small pedestal of my all-time favorite protagonists. They are the heart of Percepliquis, of The Riyria Revelations, and of the emotional impact of these stories. Percepliquis gives us more backstory of our duo protagonists, and really lets their relationship with each other act as the fulcrum to the entire damn story. A fun scene between the two discussing their first job together:““Did you respect me then?”“No. I figured you suffered from beginner’s luck. I expected you’d die onthe return trip that next night when he made us put it back.”“Only, again I lived.”“Kinda made me mad, actually. I’m not usually wrong, you know, aboutpeople? And man, you could fight. I thought Arcadius was feeding me a loadof crap the way he went on about you. ‘The best warrior alive,’ he said.‘In a fair fight Hadrian can best anyone,’ he said. That was the tellingpart—a fair fight. He knew not all your battles would be fair. He wantedme to educate you in the world of backstabbing, deceit, and treachery. Iguess he figured I knew something about that.”“And I was supposed to teach honor, decency, and kindness to a man raisedby wolves.”Royce rolled his head to the side and looked at him. “He told you aboutme?”“Not everything, just some of the ugly parts.””There are so many amazing side characters that each brought a unique flavor to the world and the story. Thrace Wood, the former farm girl, filled with life, energy, and beyond naïve, probably grows the most and ends up becoming the amazing Empress Modina, who carries herself and her country with elegance and grace. Arista, the wizardess, comes in at a close second. The young prodigy of the notorious wizard Esrahaddon not only comes to grips and acceptance of her own place in the world, all the while acting like a queen, she also comes to understand her former mentor even more now, after he is already dead. The evil back stabbing, betraying dwarf Magnus plays a pivotal role both with the story and with our hearts. Other notables like Alric, Myron, Degan Gault, Mince, and Nimbus all play key roles and will be remembered fondly.Slight spoiler about a favorite character of mine:““Alric might not have been the best king, but he was courageous andhonorable. The idea of walking through that door, of facing death, mustterrify you. How terrible it must be to give up your life when you’venever taken the chance to live it. How cheated you must feel, like losinga coin before spending it. To what can you hang on to and feel pride?Nothing! Alric could have walked through that door, not because he wasking, not even because he was noble-born, but because of who he was. Hewasn’t perfect. He made mistakes, but never on purpose, never with anintent to do harm. He lived his life the best way he knew how. He alwaysdid what he felt was right. Can you say that?””Sullivan’s writing style and prose is imaginative, detailed, and sometimes a bit poetic:““They came with hardly a warning,thousands both beautiful and terrible;They came on brilliant white horseswearing shining gold and shimmering blue;They came with dragons and whirlwinds,and giants made of stone and earth;They came and nothing could stop them.They are coming still.””One of my favorite lines is a simple one that came towards the end of the series, it made me smile and made me shout out f$@ yeah:“Royce muttered and coughed. “My friend is going to kill you.””Percepliquis and the entire Riyria Revelations series has been tied with my favorite current running epic fantasy series The Shadows of the Apt by Adrian Tchaikovsky. As a whole it ranks among my most enjoyed. Hadrian and Royce are two of the best heroes to be penned and should not be missed by any people with even the slightest interest in intelligent fantasy. These books are a blast to read. Highest recommendations!!