Battles are all about strategy, and strategy pivots on priorities. Since my priorities were Prince Jalan, Prince Jalan, and Prince Jalan, with “looking good” a distant fourth, I took the opportunity to resume running away.Replace "Prince Jalan" with "Khanh" in those sentences, and you got me down to a Tee. Which might go a long way towards explaining why I loved the main character so much.The thing is,I don't like a knight in shining armor. I like them tarnished, covered in mud, or better yet, camouflaged, so they observe in hiding, snickering, while the foolish heroes rush in first and die.I'm a fucking wimp, ok? I talk big, but it's all on paper. Trust me, if you put a monster in front of me, I'm gonna fucking run.I like a main character who is, well, like me!Someone to whom I can relate. Imperfect, who is more wont to run and hide instead of facing a dragon, and consequently, end up in said dragon's digestive system.We do taste good with ketchup.Do you likeNorse mythology? Anti-heroes?Do you want to take all theromancein the world andshove it up someone's anal sphincter?Doesnecromancysound like the perfect Saturday night?Want someepic Bromance?If so, there's a pretty good probability you might enjoy this book. No, it's not a perfect book. If you've readPrince of Thornsand absolutely hated the little shithead that is Jorg (hell, I consider it one of my favorites and even I think he's a little shithead) you will probably like this much more.The main character in this book is a whole lot more likeable.I have to admit my bias. Lawrence has a tendency to write characters that I really, really like, and I happen to be a huge fan of this book's main character.No, it's not a perfect book, but every other sentence from the main character had me shouting, YEAH, MAN!And really, that's all I could ask for.The Summary:There’s power in a name. “Prince” has served me very well—something to hide behind when trouble comes.Prince Jalan is the equivalent of, not Prince William, or Prince Henry, but more like Prince Andrew. You know, Queen Elizabeth II's completely worthless son who spends his time womanizing, racking up debts, and being an embarrassment to the throne.That's Jalan in a nutshell. It's not like Jalan even WANTS the throne in the first place, no sir! He's more than happy to use his parents' money, rack up a ton in debts, and worm his way between any woman's legs who will have him. And with a princely title,you can bet he gets a lot of pussy. It's a good life. He's, like, 10th in line to the throne, which means unless there's going to be a huge fucking assassin plot to eliminate the royal bloodline, he'll never come close enough to the throne to lick it. Not that he ever will, because his terrifying grandmother is theRed Queen, and isn't going to kick the bucket anytime soon despite being 70.She had to have seventy years on her, but no one would have called her more than fifty. Handsome or not, though, her eyes would turn any man’s bowels to water. Flinty chips of dispassion.Because she's fucking terrifying. And her unseen companion, theSilent Sisteris even more so, because she has haunted Jalan, one of the few who can see her.She turned that awful face towards me, one eye dark, the other milk and pearl. It had felt hot, suddenly, as if all the great hearths had roared into life with one scorching voice, sparked into fury on a fine summer’s day, the flames leaping from iron grates as if they wanted nothing more than to be amongst us.Sometimes he thinks he's crazy. Maybe he is.Until the Viking shows up. Nothing good ever happens when a Viking shows up. Oh, come on. They come in all RAWR and hulking and huge, and the next thing you know, they'respouting off stories about a Demon King who's raising an army of the dead."Men of the Drowned Isles broke amongst us. Some living, others corpses preserved from rot, and other creatures still—half-men from the Brettan swamps, corpse-eaters, ghouls with venomed darts that steal a man’s strength and leave him helpless as a newborn."Seriously, what a fucking killjoy, thatSnorri. If only his name didn't sound so cuddly. A few stories of monsters roaming the night, the doors of hell, or, rather, Hel, opening up.You would THINK those were just stores, fuck, Jalan wishes that they were just stories, until the ground literally opened up in front of him. NowJalan just wants to get the fuck away. Unfortunately, it ain't happening.Because Snorri and Jalan are LITERALLYtied to each other through magic. They may not be physically tied together, but they are connected, somehow. There's a sensation of wrongness when they are separated.And thus, we have a very reluctant partnership between an itinerant playboy prince, and an honor-bound Viking on a person rescue mission.They will face the shadows of darkness.They will receive mysterious missives.And maybe our playboy prince will finally learn there's more in him than he ever thought possible. That he's capable of more than just wining and womanizing. That there is a sense of honor and compassion in him, after all. Maybe a life seeking glory on the battlefield is the kind of life he needs, to make a man out of a prince.Tenth in line to a throne will get you into a not-insignificant number of bedchambers, but if a man dons the scarlet cloak of the Red March riders and wraps his legs around a destrier, there are few ladies of quality who won’t open theirs when he flashes a smile at them.Well...baby steps.The Setting:I could see corpses and timbers, some black against the hot glow, others melting into it. Even the wind’s strength couldn’t keep the scent of roasting flesh from my nostrils. The walkway ran with hot fats, burning even as they spilled down the inner wall.Truth be told,it's a fairly generic high fantasy universe, but I liked it anyway.It is the same world as that ofPrince of Thorns, and it reminds me a lot of theMMORPGsthat I have played, which is why it feels so familiar. There are mighty Nordic Viking men, a team of bluff, blunder-filled, brave, hardy souls who are filled with a sense of honor and pride. I can't remember much ofPrince of Thorns, but the setting in this book feels a lot darker, withelements of the undead, and a quest not for the throne, but into the bowels of hell itself.Jalan:I’ve always found hitting a man from behind to be the best way to go about things. This can sometimes be accomplished by dint of a simple ruse. Classics such as, “What’s that over there?” work surprisingly often.That is the opening line of the book, andright then and there, I knew Jalan and I were going to get along just fine.Jalan is my favorite sort of character, an anti-hero who starts off taking the easy path, and is consequently dragged onto the hard path (and the only path), kicking and screaming all the while.He's not the most honorable man in the world.“You’re a man of honour.” Louder this time, looking right at me. Where the hell he got that idea, I had no notion.“Yes,” I lied.“We should settle this like men.” Absolutely the last words I wanted to hear.He is a womanizer, he has a terrible, snarky sense of humor. His sense of honor is nonexistent, as is his sense of loyalty and friendship.“What’s his name?” A tall Nuban girl with copper loops through her ears and a mouth made for kissing. “How is he called?”“Snorri,” I said. “It means wife-beater.”He tends to avoid things, and memories, when they get unpleasant.I have a bad habit of blanking unpleasantness from my mind—something I’ve done since I was a child. They often say the best liars half-believe their lies—which makes me the very best because if I repeat a lie often enough I can end up believing it entirely, no half measures involved!But he is not without his complexity, throughout his escapades, he maintains a sense of loyalty, however he struggles against it.Jalan is not without honor, not without conscience.And he has depths and insights one would hardly expect from someone who is self-professedly "shallow."Bravery is just a different kind of broken. Scared of being a coward, is that what bravery is? Am I brave because I don’t fear being afraid? You’re of the light; the light reveals. Shine a bright enough light on any kind of bravery and isn’t it just a more complex form of cowardice?”Snorri:Snorri cut me off. “I took the prince out of the palace, but the palace is still crammed firmly up the prince’s arse. You need to stop moaning about every hardship, stop chasing every woman you lay eyes on, and concentrate on surviving.Snorri is Jalan'sperfect foil. He is a warrior, through and through, with all the pride that is in his name and heritage. He is a hulking Viking brute to Jalan's sleek, sheltered princeliness. Snorri kills, but he kills with a purpose. He is not without mercy, but only to those who deserve it. Those who betray him will suffer the consequences.“An axe for me. Swords trick you into thinking you can defend. With an axe all you can do is attack. That’s what my father named me. Snorri. It means ‘attack.’” He lifted the axe above his head. “Men think they can defend against me—but when I knock, they open.”Snorri is a compassionate man, a loving man,a family manwho will--and does--go to the ends of the earth to save his family. He is a man on a mission. Their bond is a tenuous one, but one that works to both their benefits.The Bromance:The air between Snorri and me spat and sparked as our hands shaped to grasp the other.Nope! I didn't misspell that, becauseTHERE IS NO ROMANCE IN THIS BOOK. There's just the joyous bromance of Snorri and Jalan. Ok, fine, so I may be stretching it a little, but come on, agiant of a Viking and a golden-haired prince?A girl can dream.He brought his hand closer to mine and a pressure built against my skin, all pins and needles and fire.I kid, I kid. There's no true romance in this book between Snorri and Jalan,just an uneasy alliance that forces them togetherthrough magic. But truly, Snorri brings out the best in Jalan, and I can totally ship them for that =)Snorri’s magic had reached into me again and made me brave. In that moment I wanted to be the one to stand between the child and her attackers. To keep her safe. And failing that, to hunt them to the ends of the earth.