Promise of Blood was an intense, action packed opening to a series that I'm really excited to continue. It had a complex, brilliantly executed magic system, great characters and a good plot that was interesting up until the very end. I'm definitely going to read the sequel soon.The magic system in this book was incredible. I've heard it compared to Sanderson's Mistborn series but having never read it I can't really comment. What I can say is that this was one of the most complex and intriguing magic systems I've read. From the very start McClellan establishes a comprehensive list of the rules, powers and limitations of magic and then proceeds to use this set-up to brilliant effect to propel the story and especially the action. I also really liked how it meshed with the 'flintlock fantasy' of this story. The magic and firearms were linked really nicely and it made the world even more unique and interesting. One complaint that I did have was that shortly after the magic system was established early on 2 extremely powerful characters showed up who were seemingly immune to the rules of magic that the author had established and that made the system so compelling.A setting similar to France during the revolution was an interesting and unique idea for a fantasy series. Unfortunately gunpowder and magic aside the setting wasn't particularly deep or engaging. The revolution in this book was over unbelievably quickly. It didn't make sense to me that the entire nobility, easily the most powerful group in the country, were completely wiped out so quickly and easily. Also I never really saw why such a drastic revolution needed to take place. A strong military leader deposing a weak king was more reminiscent of Cromwell in England or any one of the butload of times this happened during the Roman Empire rather than complete social upheaval of the French revolution. Maybe we were supposed to take it that motivations similar to the revolution existed in the background but it was never really explained why and how such drastic, unprecedented events took place (Edit: The novella's give some background on social conditions and world politics prior to Tamas' revolution.) At times it also seemed that the author was desperate to show his world was 'modernising' rather than letting the world speak for itself.The characters in this book, especially the 3 main POV characters were compelling and well-written. Tamas was a really cool character. His political manoeuvring was enjoyable if not overly complex and his POV's showed the ruthlessness needed to carry out a bloody revolt, even with good motives. Although I kind of wish his action scenes had been toned down a bit. It was kind of ridiculous that the de facto ruler of the country was personally fighting off assassins and going on dangerous missions throughout the story.Taniel was another cool character and his interaction with Ka-Poel were some of my favourite parts of the book. On the downside he suffered from what I like to call badass/wuss syndrome (in other news I've had my medical license revoked after a series of non-existent diagnoses). For the most part Taniel's sections were really interesting, especially the intense, well-written action scenes. However I was frustrated by how frequently he deteriorated into self pity about his father not hugging him enough and his fiancée cheating on him.The POV character I most struggled with was Adamat. Going in to this book I knew he was a private investigator who was being blackmailed via his kidnapped family. I was pretty jaded about both the 'P.I.' bit and the 'kidnapped family' bit and as usual my assumptions without any evidence proved dead on. I didn't find his sections anywhere near as engaging as Tamas or Taniel and the kidnapping of his family was extremely annoying. A murderous, powerful, mysterious underworld figure tries to blackmail him into committing treason and when he refuses promises to return 'with leverage'. This apparently doesn't alarm veteran detective Adamat. At all. Anyway a few chapters later his family is kidnapped. As leverage. Gasps* If only he could have had some kind of warning or clue that this would happen. From there he decides not to warn Tamas about the conspiracy and get his help in rescuing his family. Instead he decided to trust that the secretive, murder-happy international crime syndicate will let his family/9 witnesses go when he is finished helping them.Nila was an interesting study in how a revolution, even when done for the greater good, can leave innocent people's lives in ruins. I do think the author missed a chance to do more with that perspective though.Even in Nila's chapters no one really good or innocent gets hurt. Her employers were apparently bad people and no one is really sad they're dead. At one point there is a really complex moral dilemma when we are led to believe Tamas executed an innocent child in order to protect the revolution and stabilise the country. However we then learn Tamas didn't in fact execute any children and instead sent them to live on farms in the country (no, really). That was a really disappointing resolution to a complex moral and political dilemma. (note: I only really got thinking about this when I read a really cool post in the sword and laser book club about it. So props to the guy who wrote it).Of the 4 POV's Nila played easily the smallest role and this was echoed with women being marginalised throughout the story. Vlora appears and is mentioned more than almost any other non-POV character and yet the only thing of note she does throughout the story was be seduced as part of a plot to break her engagement with Taniel. I was really hoping for some explanation as to how a powerful mage was so easily tricked into betraying the man she loves and her foster-family but we never heard anything about it from her. I'm hoping she'll be more prominent in the other books and maybe get a redemption arc where she faces some karmic justice and gets to repair the relationships she damaged. Another complaint I had about women in this book were the harems. There were a lot of harems. The royal mages in every country traditionally each keep a personal harem and Bo, one of the main good guys, still keeps this tradition. There was also a high ranking religious figure whose sprawling mansion was filled with a massive harem (yeah, he was that kind of priest). I mean with this female to male ratio there have to be some interesting female characters right? One female character who I really liked was Ka-Poel. Despite falling into something of a stereotype as the white male protagonist's, lovable 'savage' sidekick I still found her an awesome character. Does that make me a bad person?This was a really enjoyable book with a great setting, good plot and interesting characters. I'm looking forward to reading the next book in this series and seeing how it expands on what was introduced here.