I've been making my way through this series in no particular order. Honestly, I'm not even sure why. The highest rating I've given any of the books was four stars.It's probably because these books are easy to read, funny, and low on the drama. I find the predictability of it all comforting rather than boring.When each of the vampire MCs find their mate, they realize how rare it is and how lucky they are. Sure, the grumpy 600-year-olds might drag their feet alittlea lot, but pretty early on they realize what they have is special and fragile and work hard not to screw it up. That alone makes them better than half of the shitty romances I find myself reading.This is Lucern's story, one of Marguerite's sons. He would definitely fall in the category of grumpy 600-year-old dragging his feet.He's a reclusive but very successful PNR romance writer who never leaves his house and is one step away from telling kids to get off his lawn. While his old editor understood that he refused to make any public appearances, his new editor, Kate Leever, is determined to convince him to do some kind of publicity for his book series. After several attempts on Kate's part to get any kind of response from Lucern other than a letter with a giantNo, she decides to hop on a plane and speak to him in person. When Lucern finds her on his doorstep with a suitcase he's horrified and rude. She eventually forces her way into his house.I wasn't really a fan of Kate's lack of boundaries but obviously, we wouldn't have much of a plot otherwise. I guess her job was on the line so that was a part of her forcefulness. Anyways, Lucern decides to go to his kitchen and feed from a blood bag with Kate in another room for..reasons? Of course, she decides to follow him and surprises him mid-feed causing him to splash blood everywhere. He tries to convince her he hit his head but that just gives her an excuse to stay and make sure he doesn't have a concussion because he obviously refuses to go to the hospital. So Kate has a reason to stick around and Lucern discovers that Kate is a possible life mate. From there the book follows the usual Argeneau series plot. Lucern agrees to do a little publicity after his mother shames him into it and he gets to spend more time with Kate. Shenanigans and romance ensue.There is something very comforting about this series. There aren't a lot of surprises and each book has characters from previous books. You know exactly where the plot is going and that it will end in romantic speeches and life long commitment.My only issue with some of these books is that as romantic asyou're my mate and therefore there is no question that we belong togethercan be, if not written properly it can actually ruin the romance of the book. Which I see a lot of in the later books in this series. It rubs me the wrong way when the vampire H/h is trying to reassure the non-vampire H/h that they belong together because you know, science. The vampire basically tells them that even if they don't love each other now, they will. Science can't be wrong. Ugh. But I digress. The point is that fortunately, that's not an issue in this book. In the earlier books of the series (like this one), the non-vampire has to make a decision the old fashion way.You know, relying on feelings.As for the H/h, I liked them both. Sure, Lucern was grumpy and painfully old fashion. And crotchety. I kept waiting for him to yell at Kate and call her a whippersnapper.Kate worked her way into his heart just by being herself.Kate, as annoyingly insistent and stubborn as she was, was perfect for Lucern. She was independent, capable, and didn'tneedLucern. She wanted him. She didn't need him. That was new for Lucern and it was really sweet to watch as he learned the difference between the two. They made a great couple.Overall it was a cute book, and despite the three-star rating, one of my favorites of the series. There's something to be said for mindless fun. And that's exactly what this book is.