I think I liked this best when it didn’t feel like it was auditioning for Tiktok content creation…The past speaks in a multitude of voices, though far too often those with power use it to silence the voices that make them uncomfortable or dismiss them as discordant and dangerous. The titular house inStarling House, the southern gothic fantasy from Alix E. Harrow, is not only a place around which many rumors are whispered but one where such discordant voices may just be waiting in its gloomy eaves just waiting to be heard.Starling Houseis a rather cozy horror that, despite an unfortunately slogging pace, wraps you up in irresistible prose and intoxicating, uneasy atmosphere as it teases out its secrets. Combing the legacy of Southern Gothic with a ratherBeauty and the Beast-esque romance and other fairy tale elements, we watch as Opal goes from poverty and struggling to care for her younger brother into becoming caretaker of Starling House where it’s reclusive Warden holds back a shocking secret. Despite a story that is overly reliant on miscommunication and an ambitious narrative that doesn’t land all its tricks,Starling Houseis a satisfying and sinister good time that examines the way storytelling can reshape the truth and why some truths seem to be a vortex of violence.‘He told me Hell was real, and so were its demons.’While I felt that this book was reaching to pull off too many techniques that, ultimately, felt unnecessary, it isn’t to saw Harrow is a bad writer. Quite the contrary, as this story really engulfs you in its dreariness and dread. It is a slow-burn narrative, one that is perhaps a bit stretched out, but it functions quite well as a thematic exploration of the ways the truths we try to bury will always return. Harrow raws on the tradition of American gothic writers, such asNathaniel HawthorneandEdgar Allan Poe, and the ways the focus is less on a specific evil but on the ways evils are folded into the very fiber of the past, such as an American legacy of colonialism and slavery. Though Harrow also figures into the legacy of women’s rage that speaks so sharply in the Southern Gothic and seems to channel many of the ideas of outsiders and moral frustrations that appear in the works ofFlannery O'Connorand offers a specific Southern US setting. It is her first story to take place in home of Kentucky, something she spoke about ina conversation with NPR:‘This is the first book that I set fully in, like committed to writing about Kentucky…One of the reasons that I had found that difficult to do before is because I find it to be a place of very mixed experiences that I love very, very, very much, and which has just an incredible violence and terror to it.’That legacy of violence and terror is certainly present here, in the ways that, like the best of Southern Gothic, grotesqueries and spooky settings tend to function as a symbol of past sins that seep like shed blood towards the present.‘Starling House makes me think of an underfed pet or a broken doll, a thing unloved by the person who promised to love it best.’Starling House is the perfect symbol of all the silenced rage and sacrificed lives that haunt the town if one knows under which rocks of history to look. It is a house that calls to Opal all her life.‘Because I dreamed of Starling House long before I ever saw it. Because sometimes when the light slants soft through the west windows and turns the dust mots into tiny golden fireflies I like to pretend the house belongs to me, or that I belong to it.’Though, as readers learn, this is no ordinary haunted house. In his introduction for the novelBurnt Offerings, horror authorStephen Graham Jonesoffers two distinctions of haunted houses: the Stay Away Houses and the Hungry Houses. Jone’s explains that Stay Away one's drive people away but‘Hungry Houses aren't complete without people to digest for reasons or decades or centuries,’ though here we have an interesting twist that the house—more a character than a setting itself—draws people in to keep to care for it and protect the secrets it holds dear. The way Harrow excels at making settings a character is really wonderful and in keeping with many gothic themes, though the town itself feels rather underutilized, more existing off-page or in history than really engaged with in the present.This is an aspect of the novel overall that felt rather lackluster. There is a lot of potential for town itself to feel like a character, either cloyingly or comfortingly, (which is something thatStephen Kinghas long been known for executing with incredible results) though it almost feels like an afterthought after the initial set-up. Characters like the librarian in particular—I often find helpful librarian characters to be eyerollingly saccharine caricatures of the field or only serve as twee nods (see also:vocational awe) but here she felt really authentic and to function the way a modern library setting would to the point where I wonder if Harrow has worked in libraries—or even the brother feel under used. And E. Starling, who seems should be a major figure in the book, gets far too little page time.There are a lot of little strands that either fall flat or seem left underexplored and occasionally it felt like Harrow was trying to pack in as many tropes or ideas as possible to appeal to a vast variety of “to read” lists instead of doing any of them particularly well. Two examples are how, while racism comes up here, it feels more just a nod and under examined which is a shame as it fits really well into the major themes of Southern Gothic, and a character is briefly mentioned as bisexual almost as if to say “put this on library lists for LGBTQ books, please” rather than earnest attempts at representation (as someone who is pansexual it’s like…oh yay rep but also seems just something an author can say without having to explore and still have a straight relationship so is it really?). I also appreciated the footnotes (which do sort of get explained) but she abandons the technique a third of the way through the book and makes it feel tacked on rather than integrated.Harrow does a good job, however, at stradling the line between YA and adult fiction and I think this is a book that would really appeal to readers of both genres. That said, I think this might have worked better as a YA. The horror elements are fairly tame (its almost cozy), the romance (which feels very unearned and out of nowhere) isn’t exactly spicy, and the characters felt much more like older teens than adults. Opal especially feels more like a fiery teenage character with too much on her plate than a mid-twenties woman struggling to feed her brother in a rent-free hotel room. ‘I slam the door as I leave, because if you’re going to act like a hormonal teenager you might as well commit to the role,’ she says at one point, and I think this would have benefitted to Harrow commiting to Opal’s role by making her a teen.‘The house has always had a taste for the brave ones.’I did like the characters, however. Arthur, who seems an allusion to the similarly reclusive Arthur “Boo” Radley fromTo Kill a Mockingbird, is constantly mentioned as being ugly. This ties into theBeauty and the Beastallusions, but it also is part of a larger theme that what is considered ugly is cast aside and ignored. It is, perhaps, almost gratuitous how much Opal talks about how ugly he is (but then almost like flicking a lightswitch is in love with him) but it does seem to fit the themes quite well.‘They averted their eyes from evil, and in doing so, became complicit in it.’What does really work is the exploration of how a place can be trapped or haunted by the past. Opal is given a multi-figure offer to dig up some secrets by the Big Bad Company of the novel and decides to do some digging for her own sake (for a character that is supposed to be really intelligent, she is always the last to know and not since readingVerityhave I so much wanted to shout “pay attention to the important clues oh my god what are you doing”). We discover so many histories are enfolded inside, and each time she probes another voice emerges adding a new dimension to the tale, rewriting previously believed histories and often adding more layers of mystery than questions answered.‘I was a songbird in a den of foxes, and they were so hungry.’Power, we see, is often about shaping history for the purpose of the powerful. It is how stories fall through the cracks, or get reconfigured into something far from the truth. And then go to great lengths to ensure their version becomes the “history,” which, as anyone who has read the gothic tales can attest, tend to be the reason why ghosts and ghouls come screaming back from the grave.‘They simply told themselves a different story, one that was easier to believe because they’d heard it before: Once there was a bad woman who ruined a good man. Once there was a witch who cursed a village. Once there was an odd, ugly girl whom everyone hated, because it was safe to hate her.’Which all works really well and leads to a rather exciting conclusion, though for a novel that felt stretched out the climax (which is, admittedly, rather emotionally lovely and tender) feels rather rushed.Starling Houseis a rather thrilling, slow-burn gothic fantasy that was tough to put down. While I may have been rather critical, overall it is quite enjoyable and just felt like it needed more polishing to smooth out the elements and pacing. Those who enjoy gothic tales, fantasy and a bit of romance will find much to enjoy here and while this wasn’t my favorite it makes me really want to read Harrow’s earlier tales. A creepy yet charming story.3.5/5‘It occurs to me that this lonely, beastly, bleeding boy is the only person who has ever fought for me, ever stood between me and the dark and told me to save myself.’