23 Feb. '15blog|goodreadsDisclaimer: An advanced reader copy was provided by the publisher via Edelweiss in exchange for an honest review.As before, folks. Come prepared with fries and your favourite condiment. Long and bitter review up ahead.If ever I could use half-star ratings on goodreads, it would be now. Actual rating would be 2.5 but I decided to be generous and round up.I gave it a go, and it passed. Barely. Enough to convince me to read the third book once it's out? Absolutely.The writing style is simplistic and yet remarkably fluid, absorbing, and just keeps you turning the pages.I urge you to also take a look at the more glowing reviews, as I doubt reading mine would actually tempt you to read this book. But really,The Invasion of the Tearlingdeserves a fair shake and it may just beyourcuppa tea.But all that said, I have to warn some of you (potential[?]) readers --this book should come with its own trigger warning for rape, sexual assault/harrassment, and self-harm. To give credit where credit is due though, I did not find these topics to be used in a romanticized way or gratuitously (although it teetered there in some ways -- which I will get to in the meat of my review later).Speaking of my review. Please do not click the "spoiler" tags unless you are in fact prepared to be spoiled.And not in the brush-your-hair-feed-you-grapes sort of way.I did not enjoy this book nearly as much as I'd like to; and for very similar reasons that I expounded in my review ofThe Queen of the Tearling, which you can find >>here<< should you be interested. As I've detailed them in my previous review, I'll not repeat them here.The reason I enjoyedThe Invasionmarginally better than its predecessor is simply because at leastit managed to answer some much-needed questions. Unfortunately this came at the expense ofmorequestions, albeit little details, and so my enjoyment of it was really constrained.My biggest peeve of this book in particular, and the whole series in general, would have to beKelsea's inexplicably powered necklace, which so happens to be a deus ex machina. Nearing the end of the novel we're given a tease of the first sighting of the necklace. Yet by the time we close the book, we still know absolute Jack Schmidt about it -- where it came from, how it got its powers, what exactlywereits powers and how did it function ..... Kelsea'sdeus ex machinanecklace remains the novel's greatest mystery still.This wouldn't be so much of a problem ifliterally everythingweren't solved by it. Indeed, all Kelsea needs to do is twirl around at her new-found prettiness and let her jewelry do its job.With this kind of unknown force, we have no idea what its limits are and how it operates. It effectively remains open as a miracle solve-all for indeed anything andeverything until the author decides it inconvenient for her plot progression to use the necklace as an answer.Case in point:Kelsea's decisions towards the end of the book in her face-off with the enemy. Instead of smiting down the Red Queen with her mighty powers, she chooses to ... not do it? and instead trade in her jewelry for not even eternal peace -- but a temporary peace? how is this a wise decision, O True Queen Kelsea?Kelsea could have been substituted for any other character for all the effective agency she had.Everything was solved away by the magical mystery of her necklace, and her -- orits-- powers seemed to suddenly blossom during the last few chapters of the book.Powers that we had never even seen before or heard mention of, suddenly were mastered and -- just when I thought I couldn't possibly dislike Kelsea even more -- came to save the day in a final battle that could only be described as mind-rape.Again, I've gone through enough detail regarding Kelsea's character in my first review, so I'll only brush it briefly here. Suffice to say, her choices were so foolish, stupid, and made for no valid reason. It seemed extremely out of character for her to make, which makes itpainfully obvious that it's all a huge set-up and foreshadowing for the third book.Case in point:Kelsea's decision to release the shadow-man-thing, whom sheknew for a factto be a dangerous, lying, evil foe -- just to garner somepossiblyvaluable information about the Red Queen's weakness. Oh, which she could have easily done anyway, given her mind-raping abilities towards the end of the book.I suppose Kelsea wasfrequently"out of character", though. I call it puberty, or the Red Queen's libido somehow transferred on to her. It must be all that darkness brewing up in her soul. Funny, though, that the "darker" Kelsea grew, the more horny she became? I thought we were all pro-lust, here?Speaking of puberty -- it did wonders for Kelsea, and not just on her hormones. Forget the author's rather extensive article on the"need for ugly heroines"-- she may as well take that back.All of our protagonist's preoccupations on beauty in the previous book were not for nothing. Here,Kelsea transforms from an ugly duckling -- into Emma Watson. And by gosh you guessed it, that process involved losing weight.I will just pause right there as we all take a collective gnashing of teeth.But enough about Kelsea, and on to the world. You'll all be relieved to hear thatwe get alotmore info on the world's history-- although keep in mind, it all still needs to be taken with a mountain-high suspension of disbelief.Case in point:so I was right and theydidsail off into a void and pop up in a new world. But ... how? Does the author expect me to believe that magic exists in the actual Earth's dystopic future, that allows such interdimensional travel? And that such magic hasneverbeen noticed by anyone else on the planet? -- alright, I'm picking nits, now.A plus point of this book were the glimpses we saw of Earth's future, leading up to the Crossing.These scenes I found to be interesting and a breath of fresh airbetween Kelsea's ..... hormonal woes. The depiction of women is very disconcerting, however -- as if with the sheer amount of women's rights movements and feminists nowadays, we could ever revert back to those dark, dark ages.But never mind how plausibleJohansen's future earth is. She needed it that way to show dissatisfaction and how low mankind have become. I'll let you decide for your own whether it was necessary for the author to use scenes of domestic violence and rape to illustrate just how despicable Lily's husband is. Just like I'll let you decide whether it was necessary or added any value to the story/characterization to have Kelsea self-harm.Personally, I found it odd -- but only because there seems to be so much going on. It gives me the impression, and the first book gave me the same impression, thatJohansen is trying to cramp her book full of contemporary issues that we all should be concerned about.Self-harm, rape and sexual assault, religious intolerance, homosexuality -- it's all in there. Right next to allusions of child sex trade, deathrings ...As admirable as it is to bring up these issues,the whole jumble of them makes it unfocused and actually cheapens the effect. As if the author has overreached herself and is trying to swipe at what is most likely to appeal to her audience.Add to it that our protagonist, of course, falls on the "right" side of these issues. It's sucha cheap way of making readers feel guilty and "wrong" should we dislike our heroine.Unfortunately, I'm not one to feel much guilt. I detest you, Kelsea. You and your mind-rape and stupid decisions and hypocrisy.Despite the overall tone of my review, I did not, however, detest this book.my review ofThe Queen of the Tearling.my review ofThe Fate of the Tearling.***more reviews are available atmy blog***7 Feb. '15Interesting article written by the authorabout "ugly" heroines, which I actually agree with. Enough with this preoccupation with beautiful female leads and a plot that centralizes on her romantic affairs!Too bad her "ugly" heroine doesn't translate on screen though. Don't get me wrong, IloveEmma Watson, but one of the points of Kelsea was that she wasn't attractive by any traditional standards. But like Hermione, Emma just doesn't capture that aspect of the character, and it kind of diminishes the point the author was trying to make.Or, I don't know, I could be wrong. Perhaps they've found a way to dress Emma down (if she really does end up playing Kelsea on film).PS. I personally like this cover better:18 Oct. '14How does this have ratings? Is there an ARC outalready???