Oh man. Oh man. I just can't...Oh man...shall we...man I can't...fuck it let's do this.If you haven't figured out by now that there are spoilers in my reviews then there is no hope for you.Should we start with the Deliverers and their reflective crews? Good. Glad you agree.So despite the fact that everyone and their alagai wanted to know what happened after the world's best exit, it is pretty obvious that this book wasn't about them. But it was still interesting to see how their relationship evolved.One time ajin pals turned hated enemies. Then a fight to the death leading to an alliance of sorts. Hell of a whirlwind bromance. It was mostly from Jardirs POV and his reaction to Arlens story was perfect. The grief at what his friend had been through at his hands and the pride and admiration at how his brother had survived. Every moment was brilliant.Then there's the plan itself. Kidnapping a mind and marching to the core. Insane, audacious and fantastic.So they lay in wait at Anoch Sun, witness the literal shitting on the bodies of the Kajis men (and here I thought it was a turn of phrase when Jardir said it. My mistake Peter) and baited a trap in the tomb of the man himself.The ensuing battle was awesome. Jardir fighting his way out of a solid floor was particularly cool and it ended with Renna misting away and killing every demon between them and escape. After killing a mimic of course.All in all they took up a much smaller portion than you'd expect. But it's definitely obvious that the final book will be heavily centred on these two.Oh and there may have been two other Krasians there. Maybe?Now we delve into Everams Bounty. Given that it's called The Skull Throne, you'd be right in assuming most of the action is centred here. First we start with Ashia. A character who, if she has been in previous books, I did not pay attention to. Boy was I wrong. We get a quick glimpse into her past. Forced into the Dama'ting palace but denied the chance to become dama'ting.So what does she and her sisters do? They train with one of the greatest sharusahk masters 20 hours a day for years, becoming some of the most dangerous people on earth. Like a boss. She's head of the personal guard for the Damajah and is married to a gay guy who is in love with her brother. Yeah you read that right.And the Damajah is trying to keep a crumbling army together while her two sons get into a dick swinging contest over who takes the throne. Jayan, the eldest, displays his usual tactic of swinging it so hard, it flys off and takes his own eye out. While Asome is more subtle and uses his to pick the lock to the throne.I'm going to abandon the dick swinging metaphor now. I regret using it. But not enough to rewrite the last part.And all the while Abban is doing his best to keep his own kingdom together at the same time as keeping the other one together. Because let's face it. Abban comes first. Any of his wives could tell you that.All the pettiness and jealousy that pervaded Krasian life before Jardir united then under his banner came rushing back and took the Krasians to the brink of implosion. After a bit of domestic terrorism, funded by the Duchess Mother no less, Abban and Jayan are sent to take Laketown. And while they are gone, Asome works his wiles to get in position to take the throne. Making himself and his brothers stronger and gaining the friendship of his wife.In the course of a few awesome water battles, Jayan manages to do the wrong thing most of the time and still comes out alive. Thanks mostly to Abban and his crew. But he doesn't make a complete mess of things. Takes the docks and ships. Encountered a truly unique little boy (but more on him later). All in all a good time was had by all Krasians. Until he gets it into his head to take his army and attack Angiers. Because that was stupid. Even for this crazy, cyclops. Yeah, he lost an eye at his wedding. Didn't I mention that?Now while all this is happening, Asome is maneuvering into position. He's getting the dama out into the night. Killing demons and getting stronger. He's letting people see him as a leader. He's even getting into his wife's good side. Yeah...into. Asome is planning a coup. Will be be successful? Tune in next time to find out.Let's take a break and see what the pale faces are up to.Now here we see Leesha and Rojer doing what they do. Leesha is doing her best to solve her baby daddy drama. It's no secret that I didn't like this person in the last two books. She went from being awesome to worse than stupid. But here she came back. Organising the healers.Teaching them advanced healing.Awesome.Experimenting with warded soldiers.Telling her mother she's an old whore. Awesomer.Her love for Thamos was good to see. After jumping from Arlen to Ahmann and back again, it was nice to see her happy. But it could not last. At the moment he asked her to marry, she told him the truth. And it all went heartbreakingly downhill. And while she was dealing with a failed romance, Rojer was dealing with the man who ruined his life and killed his friend.But while that is daunting, his wives provide much needed...relief. This is probably my favourite part of the series. The growing relationship between him and his wives. The learning about each other and the happiness they find...*sob* I can't...we'll get there.So if you thought two wives was enough, apparently giving blood to a dying woman makes you married. So he ends up with three. Kendall being added to his life in a memorable time in the bath.But the happiness could not last. The whole group was summoned to Angiers to get Gared married. Nothing good ever happens in Angiers. Nothing.The journey was rather uneventful. Apart from Thamos being the embodiment of a great leader and protecting the helpless, Leesha being lured off the road by Arlen who wasn't Arlen but a mimic resulting in Thamos charging to the rescue. All in all...standard Thesan journey.So we get to Angiers. It starts off rather well. The boys go hunting and then they go HUNTING. And Rhinebeck manages to act like both a dick and a pussy. Which is impressive in a way. And Thamos, I must say I didn't like him in book 3. But he is such a great guy in this that I feel bad he...we'll get there too.Next we visit the place where Rojer spent most his childhood. A brothel. Is it worrying I wasn't surprised by that? While we are there we see another touching scene between Rojer and Amanvah, are introduced to a Weed Gatherer and meet the future Baroness Cutter."So I walk into this whore house, titties everywhere and this girl asks to see my dick. And that, kids, is how I met your mother"Yes. He met his soon to be wife in a brothel. But let's be honest he isn't exactly a paragon of virtue. And she's sharp as a whip. I see good things for these two. Partially because neither are important enough to kill. But then again...Brett.But rich white people love their balls, so even though Gared knows who he wants, they go through the whole song and dance. He ignores every simpering sycophant in the room until she walks in, and then ignores everyone but her. Everyone is angry at having been robbed of the chance to marry into a Barons family except Jasin who knew exactly who she was.While Leesha and Thamos were having a quickie in the corridor followed by a meeting with a wonderfully intriguing boy called Briar, Rojer and his wives were being attacked en route to his rooms by none other than Secondsong. It would have been the fiddle wizards end...if not for the fact that his bodyguard was a Sharum and he was married to a warrior princess (no not Xena) and an assassin.Coliv killed most before being cut down himself, Amanvah and Sikvah handled the rest and Rojer, he killed Jasin with his own two hands. And that was when the guards found them. So despite the fact that a big ass group attacked four people, who gets arrested? The guy holding the knife. Political bullshit.Ok now this is where the stories converge. In the aftermath of the ball, Thamos was ordered by Rhinebeck to attack the Krasian army at Laketown.Thamos attacked.Thamos fought Jayan.Thamos died.It was then, at the urging of a dama'ting, that he marched on Angiers. And Briar left for Angiers with a note from Thamos to Leesha."I forgive you"Dammit but this book stabbed me in the heart.Briar. A little boy who is somehow half Krasian and half Thesan. Who, as the dama says, outran the Sharum in Laketown, went up against a sharusahk master and lived and attacks demons as calmly as most people visit the privy. "Delivers are not born. They are made"Well well...Back to Jayan. He sends a messenger first. Bearing Thamos' head. This was swiftly followed by the messenger trying to kill everyone in the room. He did a damn good job at it too. Would've succeeded if not for Leesha and her meddling wand.This leaves Angiers surrounded by an army of Sharum. Various types of them. Veterans, noobs, reverse coconuts, the whole lot. And Rojer has a great view from his tower jail cell. But he's not alone. Sikvah is there too. Just hanging around.Things rapidly come to a head. The quickest political marriage between the only surviving son of the Angiers family and the ugly duckling from Miln results in the Milnese contingent coming to battle. But before the glorious charge, Amanvah gets sent to the same cell as her husband.A friend for the end of the world right?So the Sharum charge the city. They jump/climb the walls and the gates are broken. Thousands of warriors from the most dangerous army in the land, run screaming at about four hundred Miln soldiers. And they get blown apart. Yes. That's right. Miln has guns.GAMECHANGER BITCHES! This is a whole other level. Not only is the Krasian army routed, but the secrets of fire have been put to use. With the army gone, Jayan loses control of Hasik. The disgraced warrior kills Jayan and then kidnaps Abban. Making him totally fucked. By a eunuch no less.And while all this shit was going down, Jasins uncle thought this was the perfect time to send a team of killers after Rojer. It went as well as you could expect. Assassin brides and what not. But then something terrible happened. They tried to kill Amanvah. And Rojer did the only thing he could. He threw himself in front of his wife and took the blade.Rojer is dead...WHERE ARE MY TEAR BOTTLES!!!I refused to believe it. I could not. WOULD NOT. But they carried his body out. The world became a little less happier. Less bright. His last request for his wives to keep singing will haunt me. We will miss you fiddler.Things went quickly after that. The wives killed the uncle, Leesha snuck them out and they all went back to the Hollow.Keeping Up With The Krasians pt 2Ok so after the aftermath of the colossal cluster-fuck that was the assault on Angiers, the ramifications for the Skull Throne were huge.The dama ting that tricked Jayan into attacking the city, was working with the dama ting who got her hand fucked up by going against Inevera as a child. I call her Claw. So Claw and her lover got Jayan killed with the intention of killing Inevera and taking the throne with Asome. Epic fail.Inevera killed them both but not before Asome killed his uncle and his dama brothers killed the tribe leaders assuming leadership. Except Aleverak. That wily, one armed bastard killed his challenger and went toe to toe with Asome. He died. But damn did this guy earn your respect.At that moment Asomes lover tried to kill his wife but that didn't end well. For him. Ashia killed him in front of Asome and fled to the Damajah. More violence ensued and more people died at Ashias hands. And at the end of the day, Inevera sits beside her son as he becomes Shar Darma Ka.And finally, the Deliverers get the mind demon into the tower and spend months trying to get him to talk. Except he can't talk. Until he takes a Krasian mouth puppet. Pleasantries were exchanged. Chronology corrected. And a threat was delivered. There will be swarm.Holy shit. What a book. Easily the best one so far, continuing the trend. Like everyone else, I wanted the majority to be about Arlen and Jardir. But like a child, I didn't know what I really wanted, which was an epic book. And Brett delivered what was needed. An in depth look at the politics underpinning the Krasian empire and the tenuous relations holding Thesa together.Key points⋅Amanvah, Sikvah and Leesha are all pregnant⋅The dama hold almost total control of Krasia⋅Briar is an amazing young man. Read his story in The Messengers Legacy⋅The Unifiers have no plans to return to the world anytime soonI don't know about you but I lost my shit reading this. PVB took us on one hell of a ride; one I was not prepared for. I cannot imagine what is going to go down in the next book. But one thing is for sure. It is going to be legend- wait for it...PRE REVIEWSo here we are. 4/5. Over half way in The Demon Cycle. To most people this would be time to answer a few questions. Right a few wrongs. All the while whetting the readers whistle for the grand finale. But does PV Brett play by the rules? Does he f***. That is something we've all figured out.On this journey we've seen Arlen walk a terrible path alone, almost loosing his humanity, only to have it truly returned by Renna.We have witnessed Rojer come into his own as a jongleur, then as a man and most recently as a husband to two wives. Brave man.And we saw Leesha get progressively more idiotic.There have been many other struggles as well.Renna fighting back against a lifetime of abuse to stand tall in the night next to her spouse.Gared learning to think with his empty skull instead of his bulging breeches.Jardir, Inevera and Abban realising that in spite of all the hatred and adultery, they are particularly suited to one another.And then, in all his wisdom, PV Brett brings the two leaders together. Do they set aside their differences to save man kind? Does one cede to the other? Do they try for a partnership? No. Instead HE THROWS THEM OFF A GODDAMN CLIFF!!!Never before has there been such an ending to a book and I have no idea where he's gonna go. The title suggests electrum will play a part in the book as they coated the skull throne with it towards the end if no.3 in order to increase its power. But that was before Jardir became a desert pancake.Even if he does survive, which he has to being the mind hunter, it will be a while before he's fighting fit. Unless he learns to 'mist out' as I like to call it. But that would make the whole end scene of no.3 a giant middle finger to the readers. So I'm thinking while he's out for the time being Arlen will wreak a little havoc amongst the Krasians, some of whom are starting to see HIM as the deliverer. And while that's going on, Leesha and Inevera are going to have issues over Leesha's baby daddy. But they are zhaven so we will see what goes down there. Rojer, as always, will remain on the periphery amusing us as always while Abban works his intrigues between meals of pork and anal intercourse.Then when we reach the end of The Skull Throne, and we are torn between the desire to bask in awe, shred the book in rage, or laugh in shock at where he's taken us, there is one thing that's for certain. PV Brett will have once again raised the game that he himself created,