“Then up on Olympus,” I said, “when they wanted to make me a god and stuff, I kept thinking—”“Oh, you so wanted to.”“Well, maybe a little. But I didn’t, because I thought— I didn’t want things to stay the same for eternity, because things could always get better. And I was thinking…” My throat felt really dry.“Anyone in particular?” Annabeth asked, her voice soft.I looked over and saw that she was trying not to smile.“You’re laughing at me,” I complained.“I am not!”“You are so not making this easy.”Then she laughed for real, and she put her hands around my neck. “I am never, ever going to make things easy for you, Seaweed Brain. Get used to it.”If he doesn’t give up immorality for you, he isn’t worth it.But that’s beside the point.With that, the journey of Percy Jackson, Son of Poseidon, the series that started it all, concludes.In myreviewforThe Battle of the Labyrinth, I stated I was sure this would have a satisfying enough conclusion, and honestly, it was satisfyingenough.Emphasis on the enough. The ending was enough. There’s a happy ending (for now, of course). Percabeth is official, the trio is safe and sound (as they can be), the gods are rebuilding Olympus, and the world can rest. The execution, however, was not. Still, finally getting a hold of this series and witnessing different battles, twists and turns taking place, betrayals and traitors facing their consequences, friendships blossoming, love conquering, and an entire war of Mount Olympus versus the one who started it all, Kronos, has been thoroughly engaging. Despite my love for this series being quite mixed, with my favorite beingThe Titan's Curseand my least favorite beingThe Battle of the Labyrinth, I can confidently say there is no regret on starting this series now. I used to think you were too late to read a particular book or series, either due to one’s age or because the book is no longer “as popular,” but I don’t think it’s ever too late to start something. Just like they say it’s never too late to start a new hobby or have an interest in a new career, it’s never too late to start one of the greatest, most beloved, most popular, and best-selling books and series of all time.Even though I had no opportunity to read this when I was younger, the name of Percy Jackson never left my ear. Greek mythology was always associated with him throughout my peers and those close to me. Those who read or were a fan of this andHarry Potteralways mentioned it, and I was always envious of anyone who could grow up with these characters. Despite this, reading it now in my 20s, the journey has been a mixed bag, but it has been exhilarating. I’ve learned new things, new names, new places, new histories.It isn’t a surprise, and it’s nothing new, but my favorite character is Percy. His fatal flaw is so humbling and selfless, and it makes me root for him in every way. I think it can be challenging to create a character like Percy because you’re hoping for character development, and you’re hoping this flaw won’t get in the way of Percy becoming the hero he’s meant to be. I’d argue that, unfortunately, it does get in his way. That is why it is his fatal flaw. There are many moments of Percy’s fatal flaw taking over, like when he lets Ethan Nakamura live or warns the enemy demigods that Princess Andromeda will explode. I can’t lie; it was frustrating. It brings him down, makes him predictable, and weakens him. However, I still applaud how Rick wrote his character. Percy is a natural leader, commanding those with diligence and respect, with no superiority felt just because of who he is, and he isn’t thoughtless about his actions. His actions and words don’t clash, but instead, they come together for the greater good. I think he had character development in this sense, and how he learned from his mistakes. He doesn’t hold grudges for long (that’s Nico’s flaw), and he doesn’t believe he can save everyone (that’s Annabeth’s flaw), but Percy’s fatal flaw doesn’t always crash with his strength. He finds different ways to make up for what he lost, and he shows regrets for how he acted before. He acknowledges his weaknesses even if he struggles to overcome them.My annoyance with Annabeth in the previous book was strong. I wasn’t a fan of her obnoxious and rude attitude and jealousy towards Rachel, and I couldn’t get behind her concern for Luke. I will say, though, if I were someone who took back what I said, I would be saying I’m taking back what I said about Annabeth. However, I’m not that person, so I won’t be taking back my thoughts because they are still my thoughts and feelings. What I appreciated here was finally understanding why Annabeth felt the way she did in the fourth book. We learn how and why she continued being concerned over Luke and still hoped Luke was fighting Kronos in his body. We learn more critical information on Luke here, learning more about his childhood, his fate, and why he turned against the Olympians. If only Annabeth had talked to Percy in The Battle of Labyrinth about what she spoke to him here, thenmaybeI wouldn’t have grown as frustrated with her. I swear I was reading this and going, “Oh! Well, that makes sense. Too bad you didn’t tell him that before!” Annabeth’s character development was much more prominent here. She understands how her love for Luke weakens her, but she also doesn’t give up altogether. I thought it was balanced here, with her still sticking to Percy’s side more but still showing reluctance regarding Luke.The relationship between these two was lovely in this installment. I’ve enjoyed seeing how the rivalry turned to friendship and then to love. I love how the author keeps their personalities the same, where they still share a rivalry but are much more soft. Annabeth continues calling Percy ‘Seaweed Brain,’ and Annabeth is still ‘Wise Girl’ to him. Their banter is much more fun here, with different feelings and emotions growing between them. Their teenage angst is realistic and unfairly relatable. They struggle to communicate at times but make up for it in other ways. I swear their love languages are either acts of service or quality time. No matter an argument they had before, they both make it up through snarky banter one second and the next, they’re saving each other from fights. I adored seeing their progression here. Annabeth’s jealousy did not feel silly but instead adorable. I still found her attitude towards Rachel rude, and I wasn’t a fan of the sudden change at the end, which was done just because Annabeth now knew Percy didn’t like Rachel. Still, Annabeth felt more like herself: optimistic, willing, and brave.Once again, this author’s writing is stellar. His details are descriptively satisfactory, giving me an idea of what to imagine. I’ve loved the hidden messages in the writing, with remote points in quotes and statements that one can agree with. There is also enough detail on the characters, making it easy to imagine them and have them come to life. His writing continues not to feel as juvenile as expected in these books. Even if this is the fifth book and is more YA than middle-school, the writing has never felt too juvenile or childish, as if it’s written for that audience. With this being the most action-packed installment, there is not a single moment where nothing is happening. A war is brewing, Manhattan is being destroyed, and an evil army is forming. Rick’s attention to detail is splendid.Many of the side characters close to Percy were a fantastic addition—Grover being his caring self, Tyson being adorable, Mrs. O’Leary being the best fictional hellhound ever, Dionysus being hilarious as usual, Apollo being cocky, Thalia coming to the rescue, Nico being precious. I am especially excited to see Nico in the rest of the books. I enjoyed seeing the progression of him here. His fatal flaw is holding grudges, but even he has been having his character development concerning that. As for Clarisse, I’m neutral about her. I don’t hate her anymore, but she’s a little irrelevant to me as well. Also, finally meeting Will Solace, even briefly, made me excited. Knowing he and Nico end up together in the future makes me anticipate the rest of the books. And finally, I still couldn’t bring myself to hate Luke. From what we find out through Annabeth and Percy, Luke’s character had no other way. I love how Rick wrote his villain.With that being said, I can’t help but feel disappointed with the overall execution.While I love Percy’s character in terms of who he is, I still expected more ofwho he is.The final battle every previous book has led to felt incredibly underwhelming. It was one of those kinds that felt like it could’ve happened anywhere, and there was no requirement for the location of Mount Olympus. I expected more battle overall, more execution, more grit after everything everyone went through. Additionally, Percy’s character as a demigod has been baffling. Sometimes it feels like him being half-blood is irrelevant, as if it doesn’t make a difference, because thereisno difference. This book had one (1) scene where his powers came to shine, where he could show the Titans his capability. Yet, when the battle against Kronos came, there was no tension. I feel like we were robbed of what Percy can do. He’s said to be one of the strongest demigods, but we don’t see this happening. Even after five books, Percy’s powers feel trivial, as if they aren’t one of the leading and most significant points of this series. It doesn’t matter if this final installment is the most action-packed and thrilling if there isn’t any proof of it. Plus, the entire battle scene of Percy versus Kronos was simply unsatisfactory. It was one of those scenes that made me go, “That’s it? After everything!?” I was underwhelmed. Let down. Upset. Disappointed.On a final note, I still enjoyed this series overall. It has been a fun journey, and finally getting to meet these demigods and members of camp half-blood was worth it. I am excited to move on to the next series and meet the new characters, as well as reunite with older friends. I’ve already checked out the entire Heroes of Olympus series from my library, so I’m excited to get to it soon.