“Wars are easier to start than to end, and where they take you is rarely where you intended to go.”In the second entry to The Danger and the Coin series Mr Abraham is down to business and he knows perfectly well where he wants his story to go. Sadly, he stumbles at times as if unsure how to get there; this concerns both the plotting and the pacing.I really, really wanted to give this book 4 stars, the mean reader that I am, in spite of spiders, and dragons, and the most idiotic YA female lead you can imagine. But I cannot. No matter how much I want to.King’s Blood is a great read if you do not pay attention to details like “how come?” and “why” that anchor the plot and the decisions made by the protagonists in something solid. As it is,two of the most pivotal developments in this book happen not only out of the blue but also in clear contradiction to previous character development.This hurts the book more than my personal petty grievances against it.There are five main protagonists whose eyes allow us to trace the main story: Dawson Killiam and his wife Clara nobles of the Imperial Antea, Geder Palliako who finds himself much closer to the Severed Throne than he ever dreamed, Cithrin bel Sarcour, banker by upbringing, alcoholic by vocation and Marcus Wester, a warrior without a cause. All these are in some ways interconnected, and even though not all paths cross and converge, the actions and decisions ripple and have reverberations beyond obvious.“This may sound a bit grandiose.”“Try me.”“I am off to kill a goddess.”While Dawson attempts to save his country, Marcus is burdened with the doomed and inevitable task of saving the world. In fact, bothMarcus and Dawson are in a sense mirror reflections of each other with one placing the state on an individual, the other on an idea behind it. The way Marcus allows himself to be tied to Cithrin is the precisely same thing that allows Dawson to liberate himself from poisoned loyalty to the person wearing the royal paraphernalia and yet remain faithful to the ideas that make the difference between betrayal and patriotism.It is interesting to watch their parallel struggles, especially that in some sense, both lead towards a tragedy.“The day I throw you in a ditch and take a company, sir? It’s today.”The problem with Marcus’ POV, in particular, isthe pacing; getting Marcus to do what obviously needs to be done and what is apparent from his very first chapter through the long and painfully protracted path of his personal but implausible obsessions with Cithrin didn’t feel honest(yes, that’s the word) enough to justify the obvious attempt to prolong the story.This impression is only reinforced by the fact that after having disappeared for half of the book only to re-emerge out of nowhere, Kit manages miraculously, inexplicably but oh how conveniently find a knowledge and a way to the magical artefact that is needed to continue with the quest.The lameness of this design is not even worth an eye-roll. Nor a facepalm.“You are not a banker. You are an extortionist who got lucky.”Me and Cithrin, we could never be friends. The vibes are not there.I had hopes that perhaps she would grow into a character I could admire and respect, but her keen intellect is her only saving grace. Otherwise, all her traits that could potentially develop into virtues: ambition, audacity (oh, her meeting with Komme Medean!), and an ability to risk everything on a whim turn into her vices. In a sense, I understand the design Mr Abraham seems to have in mind where Cithrin is concerned. It was visible in the way he stripped her of human entanglements, forced her to develop a driving habit within a fortnight and detached from any morality which rendered her capable to buy and sell everything including her own body and soul as long as it brings the profit to her bank. On some planeI found it bizzare that she is the one diagnosing Geder as dangerous because he’s been growing up without a mother. Says a girl who suffered exactly the same fate!But far more important than my personal dislike of her is the fact that, her decisions made at the most pivotal moment of the novel when she is at the heart of an empire that killed and burned down everything that mattered in her life and then changed her just don’t add up.Cithrin enters the city of Camnipol overwhelmed and, if not precisely hating it, then feeling unease, anxiety. She knows the army that BURNED everything she loved came from Camnipol. She knows the soldiers that KILLED everyone she loved are around, drinking in the taverns, walking down the streets, etc. We follow her internal monologue and it is as if Abraham winks at us. Next thing you know is: Cithrin saves the Regent.I am sorry but it does not make sense. Especially that it is emphasized this wasn’t calculated (as in banking) but rather something that happened (as in instincts) and Cirthrin has a feeling this happens to a different woman.I have been waiting for the Cithrin - Geder meeting. It was interesting for me whether a) she will recognise in him the man who saved the smuggled good by stealing a handful of gems and then b) add this to the fact that this is also the very same person who burned Vanai to the ground.To be honest, I stopped reading the book at that point and wondered if there is any sense in continuing with the series at all.“The best thing you can say about Geder is he’s the sort of man who makes good enemies.”I admire how Mr Abraham breathes life into his antagonists. Geder gives meshudders and creeps. The way he isguided and yet misguided by nothing more sinister than a desire to be respected and liked. What I liked the most in this arc is how Geder also shows an addiction, yet addiction of a different sort that this eating Cithrin away. Thespecial power within his grasp changes from something of a luxury and an extraordinary measure into a daily tool of governance into something he cannot do without. To watch how something that he used as a tool becomes his master is fascinating. He is in someone else’s war without even realising it or beginning to understand how devastating are the things he set in motion. At the same time, he is far from being a gullible fool to be pitied: There is certain psychopathic quality about him (suffice to mention the scene that so reminded me of Denethor’s conversation with Pippin in the Return of the King in its obnoxious and heartless repugnancy), but at the same time his insecurities are understandable, justifiable even. Who likes when people laugh at them, after all? We all have this jagged crack in the darkest depths of our souls, and what Mr Abrahm shows is what happens when it runs deeper than usual.Luckily, to balance things out, there are also those whose personal integrity, courage, generous heart and discipline shine the brightest when all things fall apart. And the winner in this category is: Clara of course.I knew Dawson was going to die from the moment her POV has been introduced in the previous book. It only made sense this way (what is the need to double the perspective otherwise?) andI was really curious what would become ofthe gentle, noblewoman who marshalled her household the way generals marshal armies.“The wise general leads his army into battle to reshape the world, and so he creates a place which does not need him.”It is obvious that the design is there, but whereas in some places the details are sorted down to the tiniest detail (like cutting through the thumb to seal the contract), in other areas things are blurry enough to allow for naive plot conveniences straight from a story meant for middle-graders. Still,despite these flaws I am happy to say that at this point I am entirely hooked and I intend to continue with the series as soon as… now.And the most important message is this:“It isn’t truth. It’s never truth. It’s certainty.”Also in the series:1.The Dragon's Path★★★★☆3.The Tyrant's Law★★★★★4.The Widow's House★★★★☆5.The Spider War