The First ConfessorThe Legend of Magda SearusBy Terry GoodkindA Review by Eric AllenOver the last few years Terry Goodkind has been having... let's call them "issues" with his publishers/editors. There have been quite a few rumors of vicious fighting between them over his work. Not to mention the fact that he switched publishers after his contract with Tor was up, a clear indication that he was unhappy with his situation there, and has publicly whined about editorial influence like a spoiled brat once or twice as well. His last two books,The Law of NinesandThe Omen Machine, were not well received by fans and critics alike, likely because they were godawful abominations that no amount of editing could have made readable, much less enjoyable. These rumored difficulties between Goodkind and his publishers seem a likely culprit to lay the blame for these horrible books on. Whether that is true or just internet speculation at its worst remains to be seen. The only real truth that is known on the matter is that Goodkind has decided to forgo any publisher/editor interference and self-publish this book, giving himself complete control over every aspect of its presentation and release. His press release on the audio version is pretty telling on his feelings over publisher interference, and may lend credibility to some of the rumors. The book was first released in e-book form, and later as an audiobook produced by Terry himself after he found a reader that suited him. Was it an improvement over his previous two books? Well, yes and no. In terms of story and character it is INFINITELY better. In terms of writing... well, this book may be one of the absolute worst written books I've ever read in my life. As such, it's a very difficult book to rate, because it's both bad and good at the same time.The First Confessor begins shortly after the suicide of the First Wizard Baracus, husband of Magda. The Midlands are at war with the Old World, who seek to destroy all magic and enslave everyone under their tyranny. Dream Walkers have infiltrated the Wizard's Keep, infecting the minds of many, forcing them into unwilling slavery. Additionally, there are traitors amongst those claiming to be loyal, directing the Dream Walkers to the most opportune hosts.Finding a note left for her by her dead husband, Magda sets out to find the truth of why he killed himself. This leads her to a Spiritist, who is said to be able to commune with the dead, working in the catacombs under the Keep. Through this she is led to the Wizard Merrit, who has a passion for making things of magic, including the Sword of Truth, and the magic that creates Confessors. Though Magda has deep disgust over people being made into weapons through magical means, she finds herself trapped. The only way that she can uncover the traitors in the Keep and save the Midlands from ruin is to allow that which she sees as abhorrent be done to her, becoming the first Confessor.The Good? The story of this book is good, and the characters are enjoyable. It builds to a satisfying conclusion, and sheds some light on the murky back story of The Sword of Truth series. I quite enjoyed seeing the creation of the Sword of Truth, and learning more about the war in the past. All in all, it was a rather fun book for someone who thoroughly enjoyed The Sword of Truth series like myself.The Bad? Though the characters may be entertaining and likeable, they are, unfortunately, far from original. Magda is Kahlan. Merrit is Richard. The enemy emperor is Jagang. There's no originality here AT ALL. In fact, the entire story itself is lifted from the Sword of Truth. And I don't just mean that it's a retelling of Richard's discoveries in Kolo's Journal. I mean that the war in the past is an exact copy of Richard's war. Goodkind seems to have one single story that he can tell, imparting the exact same themes over and over again. The one time he strayed from his formula, we got The Omen Machine. It's not that the story doesn't work, or that the characters are unlikeable, it's that they're recycled from Goodkind's other works. There's nothing new here. I enjoyed it the first time Goodkind told it, and I enjoy it here, but it's still the same old story, with the same old characters, and the same old themes. The characters may have different names, but they're still the same characters. The only original character is Lothaine, who makes a very good villain in how utterly evil he is.Though not as preachy as some of Goodkind's other works, this one is still pretty bad. The message of the story is the exact same message that Goodkind has tried to beat into us from the very beginning. He sounds like a broken record, repeating the exact same line over, and over, and over, and over again.The Ugly? This book is TERRIBLY written. The writing is highly repetitious, and amateurish at best. Goodkind CLAIMS that there was an editor, but that is pure, unadulterated bullshit. He may have had a friend check over his spelling and grammar, but a professional editor DID NOT ever touch this book. A REAL editor would take one look at this book and laugh his ass off. There are numerous things that are expressed numerous times as though it was the first time. Red banners denoting the blood shed during the war, for instance. This is repeated about three or four times, as though Goodkind forgot he'd already told us what they mean. Either that or he thinks we're all idiots and need to be told the same thing over and over again until it sinks in. In one single conversation a character is compared to a vulture more than three times. In a single paragraph a map is referred to as "the map" seven freaking times. Does Goodkind just not know the meaning or uses of the word "it"? These are just a few examples, this book is RIFE with crap like this. A GOOD writer refrains from using the EXACT same words to describe the EXACT same things in close proximity to each other. Readers find the repetition to be highly annoying, and it makes us wonder if the writer has any skill at all. The same exact conversations are repeated numerous times, and go on for ridiculous numbers of pages, repeating the same questions and answers over, and over, and over again to basically just take up space and add padding that the story really doesn't need.Technobabble. I absolutely hate technobabble. The weakest aspect of Goodkind's books have always been his explanations of how magic--prophecy especially, though all magic gets the treatment--works. If you want to tell me how your magic system works, by all means, do so. But if you're going to instead give me eight pages of technical jargon that is utterly meaningless and tell me that it's an explanation on how your magic system works, you're doing it wrong. If, by the end of eight pages of explanation, I know as much about how things work as when you started, you've just wasted a great deal of my time, and yours. Technobabble is gibberish that is utterly meaningless to the reader, and it makes the writer look like he doesn't have the slightest clue what he's talking about. If you're going to explain something, do it the right way, and actually tell people how something works. Don't go on for pages, and pages, and pages spewing meaningless gibberish about star alignments and calculations that makes little to no sense to anyone involved. It utterly removes anything magical from things that are supposed to be magical. I'd say that at least one tenth of this book's word count is completely meaningless technical jargon trying to explain away the workings of magic, if not more. I get that you want it to be realistic, but technobabble is NOT the way to make it real. It may sound cool to you as the writer, but the reader is just going to be scratching his or her head and rolling their eyes over it. And when it goes on to ridiculous length, becoming the main focus of half the book, you're going overboard. Technobabble is not an explanation, it's a load of meaningless gibberish that no one wants to read. If you're going to give an explanation... GIVE A REAL EXPLANATION OR DON'T GIVE ONE AT ALL!!!The chapter breaks in this book are ridiculous. This book is probably somewhere around 100k words in length, and it's got over a hundred chapters in it. Single conversations are broken up into ten or fifteen chapters! It really ruins the pacing where every five paragraphs of an exciting conversation of discovery and revelations there's a chapter break. That was actually one of the SELLING POINTS of the book, if you look at the flier Goodkind has posted on his website! You don't toss in fifteen chapter breaks during a conversation that doesn't warrant it, or in a scene that doesn't need it. It just breaks up the pacing, which is a bad thing. Adding in the padding of repetition, pages upon pages of technobabble, and needlessly breaking the book up into a ridiculous number of chapters does not make the book longer in any good way.The Sword of Dues Ex Machina rears its ugly head once more. Where Richard inexplicably learns to fight like a master swordsman from the sword in seconds three thousand years in the future, this is an explained event. The skills and knowledge of everyone ever to use the sword in battle is imprinted on it, and can be accessed by the wielder. HOWEVER, Magda is the first person ever to use the sword in battle. Where did this master swordsman knowledge come from? There are other glaring plot holes as well, and many of these are explained away rather weakly in a "let's record the information incorrectly to throw the bad guys off the trail" sort of thing at the end. This somewhat cheapens Richards struggles to translate the journal in the Sword of Truth proper.In conclusion, this book is TERRIBLY written. It is full of plot holes, recycled characters, plotlines and themes, and is repetitious to the point of extreme annoyance. HOWEVER, I can forgive any amount of bad writing for a story that is enjoyable and comes to a satisfying conclusion, with characters that are likeable and entertaining. Regardless of the fact that these elements were borrowed from Goodkind's previous works. They were good stories, themes and characters to begin with, and they're still good now. In my opinion, Goodkind really needs to swallow some of his pride and allow a REAL editor to have a crack at his work, because this book needed it in the worst way imaginable. I understand his desires not to have publishers pushing him around and forcing him to change his stories, however, without the benefit of professional editorial services and copyediting, you get a mess. It was an enjoyable mess, but it was still a mess. If you are a fan of The Sword of Truth, and would enjoy some more light being shed on the back story, and don't really mind that it's terribly written, this book is for you. However, I would not recommend this as a jumping on point for anyone looking to pick up Goodkind's works. It's not a very good example of Goodkind's skill as a writer, or a storyteller, though old fans will enjoy his return to form, even if it's not as well written as his previous works have been. I enjoyed this book FAR more than I would have a continuation of The Omen Machine.I honestly can't tell you whether or not Goodkind's controlling every aspect of this book's publication was a good thing. On one hand, the story and characters are a VAST improvement over his previous two books, even if they are recycled from his previous works. On the other, the writing has taken a STEEP dive in quality. I would rather have an entertaining book that is poorly written than a well written book that isn't entertaining.(The Wise Man's Fear, anyone? Anyone?) I'll give you that much. But is asking for both too much? It doesn't have to be a new story, and the characters don't have to be fresh or original. I enjoyed these things the first time around. I'll come back for more if you've got it. But Terry, my man, you need a professional editor BIG TIME. This is getting ridiculous. Look at yourself, man. Take this book and compare it to Wizard's First Rule. Look at the huge drop in quality. Writers are supposed to get more skilled with age, not less. What happened to you? You used to be a good writer. It's like you just don't care anymore. I can forgive a lot of bad writing for a good story, but a good story is so much better when it's well written. I can't give this book any more than three stars because of it, no matter how much I may have enjoyed it.I know that it seems like I'm just tearing this book to shreds here, but I actually did enjoy it quite a bit. It was not without flaws, but it was still highly enjoyable to me as a fan of The Sword of Truth series. This book is a ridiculously huge improvement over the soulless Omen Machine for the simple reason that Magda is a likeable character and Goodkind made me care about her right from the beginning. This aspect was utterly lacking in both The Law of Nines and The Omen Machine. If there's something worth reading for, I can forgive a lot for it. The First Confessor had that something, whereas the other two did not. It's a step in the right direction for Terry Goodkind after half a decade of disappointment. I only hope he continues on in that direction.Check out my other reviews.