The Third KingdomBy Terry GoodkindA Review by Eric AllenI was NOT looking forward to this book. I will freely admit that.The Omen Machinewas boring, repetitive, laughably stupid, and it turned all of my favorite characters into brainless fools dancing on the strings of the plot rather than driving it forward as they used to in Goodkind’s previous works. I don’t want to hate books by Terry Goodkind. He used to be one of my favorite authors. He’s just had some really, really terrible books of late that are nothing even remotely like the passionate tomes of his early career. He used to be able to tell a good story, and to tell it well. But for the last decade or so, it seems as though his heart has not been in it. All of the emotion and passion seems leeched out of the writing, and the stories themselves have grown duller and duller. Fortunately, The Third Kingdom is a vast improvement in terms of both the quality of the story, and the quality of the writing than we’ve seen from Goodkind in a good long while. Please note that I meant that to be in comparison to everything he has published after Confessor. When compared to anything he wrote before, this book is utter garbage. A step in the right direction is still twenty steps BEHIND where he began. There are some minor spoilers ahead. I tried to be as vague as possible with them. You have been warned.The Third Kingdom begins shortly after the ending of The Omen Machine. Richard and Kahlan have been infected by death, and must be taken to the People’s Palace to be healed of it. Richard awakens to find himself and Kahlan alone in the back of a cart whilst two men argue over which of them they should eat and which they should trade. After a bit of graphic violence unfit for network television ensues, the men are subdued, and our heroes are taken to a nearby village for healing.A young boy at the village recounts what happened to Richard’s friends and personal guard, and why he was left alone with Kahlan in the back of that cart. This explanation, I feel, is very poorly done. I have to point this out. This is a CHILD telling this story. Read through this section of the book and ask yourself. Are these the words that a child would use to describe what happened? NO, THEY MOST CERTAINLY ARE NOT!!! This whole section is just very poorly thought out and executed.Firstly. Show, don’t tell. It's practically the first rule of storytelling in any medium. It would have been so much more powerful to actually experience this firsthand rather than have it recounted to us. I don't want to get the Cliffnotes version of a horrific battle where people are being eaten alive by zombies second hand. I want to experience the horror of it as it unfolds. I understand what Goodkind was going for here, in that we are with Richard and have no idea what's going on or why. That COULD have been a very interesting spin on things, as Richard fumbles his way through, having no idea what has happened to himself, his wife, or any of his friends... if not for the fact that we're told exactly what happened a chapter later by this kid who talks like he's a forty year old college professor. I can see where Goodkind tried to inject a few aspects of Horror here, but he clearly doesn't understand that all of the fear, tension and drama in this situation comes from both Richard, and the reader, not knowing what happened, and he immediately dispels it all in the very next chapter. Why even bother? Just give us the scene in its entirety at the beginning of the book instead of this half-assed, and failed, attempt at horror.And secondly. What child talks like this? Seriously. If the person telling the story was an adult, sure, it would probably fit, but holy crap dudes and dudettes, these are clearly the words of the author, giving us a brief summary of a scene he was too lazy to write out in its entirety, and not the words of a frightened child telling the story of something terrible and horrifying that happened. It was a very lazy, and frankly boring way to introduce the enemy army, the main conflict of the book, and to recap what happened between books.When the walking dead attack the village, Richard knows that something horrible is going on, and enlists the help of the young Sorceress Samantha to help him figure it out. At this point the book slams headlong into a brick wall with over a third of the page count devoted to recaps of things we already know, and the Reader’s Digest version of the Ancient War with the Old World. And by Reader’s Digest version, I actually mean the entire freaking Reader’s Digest Version, all hundred pages of it or so. And all of this is told by Richard reading it boringly off of a wall rather than through experience, self-discovery, or a billion other far more interesting ways of expositing other than a dozens of pages long wall of text that is about as entertaining to read through as having your wisdom teeth pulled. This single scene, by the way, is broken up, pointlessly, into about twenty-five chapters, for no visible reason whatsoever. The book starts out great, with real tension and horror, which is then immediately dispelled before slamming into this. It took me the longest time to get through it, and it repeats itself so many freaking times that it actually made my head hurt. The first third of this book is pretty dull, and very hard to get through, because instead of making the back story interesting in any way, Goodkind just infodumps it all on us at once in a wall of text that just keeps going, and going, and going without end. Infodumping is never interesting or exciting, it's just plain boring, lazy, and painful.Richard knows that without his grandfather Zedd, he is going to die, and so he sets off to the dark and terrible Third Kingdom where life and death overlap upon each other, and an ancient evil was once sealed away. Upon arriving he comes face to face with Hannis Arc, a man who has devoted his life to utterly destroying the House of Rahl, and who commands the zombie hoards of the ancient emperor that once threatened the world of life thousands of years ago.The Good? AfterThe Law of Nines, and the Omen Machine, which were both boring, pointless, and terribly written additions to Goodkind’s library, this book is, thankfully, not all that bad. Whatever funk Goodkind was in, he seems to slowly be coming out of it, withThe First Confessor, and now The Third Kingdom. The story has purpose and direction, and a goal to be achieved right from the beginning. These are things that were lacking and sorely missed in The Omen Machine. The focus narrows mostly to Richard’s desperate quest to rescue his grandfather so that his wife will not succumb to the illness that is killing her. The story is simple, but effective, and offers a bit of a nostalgic throwback to the first book where Richard and Kahlan are fleeing through the Boundary Pass, without feeling as though it’s simply copying over scene for scene as was the case with The Law of Nines.For once, Goodkind did not take it upon himself to spend half the damn book preaching to us. And that is always a plus. The theme of this book was very subtle, and, for the most part, he didn’t try to beat us over the head with it.The story of this book has very little to do with that of The Omen Machine, when you get right down to it. These are events that happen after that book, this is true, however, there’s some disconnect between them. This book feels more a continuation of The First Confessor, than one of The Omen Machine, and frankly, the less we’re reminded of The Omen Machine, the better, in my opinion. There are some small continuity errors and minor plot holes between this book and The Omen Machine that lead me to believe that Goodkind had other plans for it and changed his mind about where it was going to go, and what was going to happen, sometime in the two years between their releases. Any change is good, whatever continuity errors or plot holes it may create. because that last book was dreadful. Or maybe this was always the way it was to be, and simply no one caught the errors. Who knows for sure, save Goodkind himself?The quality of writing is quite a bit higher than that of either The Omen Machine, or The First Confessor. That is not to say that it is up to the standards that Goodkind, himself, set with his earlier works. However, any improvement is a positive. I only wish that Goodkind could go back to the glory days when he used to tell good stories, and tell them well.Goodkind, for once, laid off of the Deus Ex Machina for the ending. Richard was stripped of his magic for the entire book, and had to work through solutions without its aid. This led to him having to rely more on the strength of others and on his own wits and experience, and ultimately make a wild leap of faith that could have cost him his life if his hunches were wrong. There is a terrible sacrifice to be made to escape with his life, and the villain still won in the end. This ending is so much more powerful than an ending where Richard would wave his hand and magically everything was fixed, as he seems to do an awful lot at the end of many of Goodkind's books. I want to see a character struggle, and grapple emotionally with a dilemma, and do everything he can to win, but still fall short in the end, finding himself in a position that he can only run away at great cost. It makes for a lot more tension and drama than when he waves a hand and everything is fixed by inexplicable powers.The Bad? This book suffers from a lot of the same problems that The Omen Machine had, just not as bad. Though it is nowhere near as terrible as it was in the previous book, there are still some issues with the characters’ personalities. More often than not they seem like one-dimensional stereotypes of themselves rather than the characters bursting with personality and life that I adventured through high school and college with. Perhaps I am simply looking back through nostalgia goggles, true, but I don't remember these characters being so wooden and emotionless. They were always expressive and emotive to the point that Goodkind rarely had to flat out tell us what they were feeling. We could feel it ourselves in the way it was written, and how they spoke.There is quite a bit of repetition in this book, to the point that it's maddening and painful. Mostly it’s the dialog than anything else, though there are a few sections where Goodkind is giving descriptions and they seem to go on for pages saying the same things in different ways over, and over, and over again. There are conversations in this book that are, say, twenty pages long, with about a page and a half of actual content in them. The characters just keep asking the same questions in different ways, and giving the same answers. Most of this is in the first third or so of the book. Goodkind does lay off it a bit after Richard and Samantha leave on their journey to the Third Kingdom, but there are still one or two patches later on where it’s teeth-grindingly bad. I don’t know if Goodkind thinks he just really, really, really needs to get his point across to the readers, or if he just needed to pad the word count, or if he thinks we’re all idiots and need to be told things a thousand times before they sink in. Whatever the reason he feels the need to repeat himself so much, it really is distracting from any enjoyment in the story, and really breaks up the tension and the dark mood that hangs over the rest of the book. Take this book, and compare any page in it, side by side with any page in Wizard's First Rule, and you can very plainly see a difference in the way that they are written, and not a positive one. This book reads almost like something written by a completely different author than that first book, one who has forgotten the passion he once had for telling a story, and telling it well.It is to be expected that a Goodkind book will have a certain amount of blood and gore in it, but this one turns the carnage up to 11 almost from page one. It is a very dark and gruesome tale, that seems cruel and spiteful in its extreme graphic violence simply for the sake of it. A lot of the violence is really mean spirited, with a cold cruelty that lacks emotion or passion, as opposed to earlier books that Goodkind published where the violence served a purpose to the plot, or to the development of the characters, and was never excessive to the extreme, or uncomfortable to sit through. Those with aversions to such things may find this a very uncomfortable book to read through. I'm usually pretty desensitized to that sort of thing, and even I was a little shocked by it. What makes things worse, is that the tone and pacing of the book are pretty screwy. On one page you’ll have a character cracking a joke, and on the very next, someone will be eaten alive by rage zombies. It’s very jarring when there’s no transition between things like that, especially when the violence is so extremely graphic, and really over the top into cringe-worthy territory. With an imagination like that, I certainly never want to meet Goodkind in a dark alley after having pissed him off.This book ties in heavily with the events in the latter half of The First Confessor, the e-book that Goodkind released last year. Having read that book, I may not be the best judge of how well he recaps in The Third Kingdom. He does recap, but it may be a good idea to pick up The First Confessor first before starting this one, just in case he missed something vital. The Third Kingdom really does seem more like a sequel to The First Confessor rather than one of The Omen Machine. It deals far more heavily with events in that book than it does to the one it actually is a sequel to. I find this to be a rather dick move on Goodkind's part, due to the fact that The First Confessor was only released in e-book and audio formats, and there are many people out there without access to an e-reader, or the funds to purchase a book they would normally get from the library if it had a physical edition.After Darken Rahl, and Emperor Jagang, two extraordinary villains that this series has seen, I just don’t find Hannis Arc all that threatening. In fact, he’s pretty laughable. He seems like a petty Bond villain, and not in one of the good Bond movies either. There’s a scene where the undead ancient emperor is just totally schooling him on how to be evil, because he’s so incompetent at it, and it had me laughing my ass off. I was reminded of the scene in Austin Powers where Seth Green is questioning why the stupidly elaborate deathtrap rather than just shooting him in the head and making an end to it. Some villains just need sharks with lasers on their heads to compensate for their incredibly small dicks. You’re not supposed to laugh at the villain in a story this dark and serious. See what I mean about the tone of the book being erratic? You’ve got all these terrible, world-changingly evil things going on, and the author threw a comedy bit right out of a Mike Meyers movie into the mix. The guy was so irrelevant to The Omen Machine that you could have removed him from it completely and not even noticed. And here, he's more a cliche stereotype of a comedic villain than anything really threatening. Even the writer seems to think of him more as a joke than a real threat. I gotta tell ya, I'm really not feeling it.There is a LOT of inconsistency with the level of intelligence that the zombies possess. At times, they seem as intelligent as people. They talk amongst themselves, discussing their options and what to do next. At others, they seem like mindless, rabid animals, screaming and growling and incapable of human speech. Others, they seem somewhere in between. I mean, I'm not asking for a lost Shakespearean sonnet here or anything, but holy crap man, can you keep things consistent at the very least? It's almost as if Goodkind watched a whole bunch of zombie movies, and just tossed in scenes he liked here and there that go completely against things that he has previously established with his zombies. I'm not asking for a masterpiece here, but you know what would be nice? If the villains in the first chapter, were the same as the villains in the second chapter, and then, in the middle of the book, they were still the same, and kept on being the same until the ending. You know, consistency? Where a villain retains the same motives, abilities, and intelligence from start to finish, instead of changing drastically to fit the scene.The Subtitle "A Richard and Kahlan Novel" is a little misleading. It's a Richard novel. Kahlan has about a chapter and a half devoted to her, spending the vast majority of the page count unconscious. In fact, Richard is, pretty much, the ONLY character in this book. None of our old favorites do much more than make cameo appearances, which may actually be a good thing after how harshly they were lobotomized in The Omen Machine. I'd rather the characters not be included than they be completely ruined the way they were in the previous book. Anyone looking for Zedd, Nicci, Nathan, Kahlan, Cara, and half a dozen other oldies but goodies will likely be disappointed by their lack of screen time. The resolution of Kahlan's situation feels rather tacked on, and almost superfluous, as though Goodkind was trying to work her into a story that she really didn't have much business being a part of.In conclusion, while this book may not be up to the standards of Goodkind’s earlier works, it is a far cry better than the soulless Omen Machine, and the fun but terribly written First Confessor. It is a very dark and gruesome tale that is excessively graphic in its violence, but moves along at a good speed once it gets past all of the soul-crushingly dull exposition. There is a great deal of pointless repetition, mostly in dialog scenes, and a few places where it would have been nice to have been shown things rather than told them, but for the most part it is a pretty enjoyable book, and should be well received by most, if not all Goodkind fans. It still feels as though Goodkind has traded a lot of his fire and passion for writing with needless cruelty and hyper violent distractions that seek to draw the eye away from a lot of the problems the book has with tonal shifts, and repetition. That being said, I haven’t said this in about ten years, but I’m actually looking forward to Terry Goodkind’s next book. The Third Kingdom is a vast improvement over the previous few books Goodkind has published, but he could still use a little work before he’s back up to the level where he began. Just get past the extremely boring first third of the book, and the rest of it moves along pretty quickly and painlessly. But, holy crap, brace yourself for a lot of boring, lazy and clunky exposition at the beginning of this thing. The book does pick up afterward, but for the first third its even more boring than The Omen Machine was. Of course, I would always take Wizard's First Rule, Stone of Tears, or Faith of the Fallen over The Third Kingdom, but this book was quite entertaining despite its flaws. The good outweighs the bad, in my opinion. Sorry to anyone who wanted to see me flip out over this one, but honestly, I don't like to hate books. I would rather be entertained by them, and The Third Kingdom delivered on that. Is it a great book? No, not by any means. It has some pretty major flaws in it. Is it still entertaining despite those flaws? Yes, I think that it is. And let no one say that I can't give a Terry Goodkind book a positive review.Check out my other reviews.