“The First Law is that men are free for without the freedom to choose, men cannot serve their heart, and without heart they cannot serve their Gods, their Saints, or their King.”King’s Laws“All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.”Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Article 1What aprecarious mix of fantastic ideas and far-fetched conveniencesthis book was.On the level of pure page-turning entertainment, it was all you could ask for. But if you are looking for more than fun in your novels, you will find the Traitor’s Blade wanting.There arefour main elements that make the Traitor’s Blade exceptional: As we follow the story of Falcio val Mond, First Cantor of the Greatcoats, together with his companions, master swordsman Kest and archery master Brasti, we are immersed in theircamaraderie, bonds of friendship and mutual trust, and loyaltystemming from shared ideals. Theirbanter is priceless. Dialogue lines are sparkling with wry humour and seem effortless, a far cry from a strained comedy script so many fantasy books are prone to these days.Action scenes are of similar quality. There are many fights, duels, two (or even five) to one encounters with many weapons, settings, and fighting techniques. These are not rehearsed choreographies of martial prowess and give the impressions of authenticity. It is evident that Mr de Castell is into fencing and knows the business of sticking the pointy end of rapier into the opponent. He uses this knowledge well.Finally, the variety of main and supporting characters is seconded byinteresting character development. The book focuses on Falcio and his personal journey from a small fatherless boy to the leader of Greatcoats will not leave a single reader unperturbed. I hope we will learn more of the other two in the coming instalments. Kest’s backstory is merely hinted at, while Brasti remains enigma behind the loverboy facade.“Ah, you fool. Dying isn’t the sacrifice. Haven’t you figured that out yet? All those years of trying to get yourself killed in battle? That ain’t sacrifice, boy. That’s self-loathing. It’s gleeful suicide. It’s vanity.”As for the reasons whythis book deserves not an inch above the three-star rating, there are two significant flaws: worldbuilding and plot conveniences.The world we are given is your generic medieval (plus pistols) kingdom with magic, although the magic system is not developed at all. The settings give you a favour of longing for good times ended prematurely by an untimely and dramatic murder of a good king Paelis. Paelis is your typical king-scholar, king-idealist, a good monarch not really fit to live in the harsh times and realities of the land he governed.“When they take the last good thing from your life, there must be an answer.”Tristia is a land in theory ruled by a king and his law, in reality, a loose federation of duchies run like private farms by the Dukes and Duchesses of whom each and every single one is a greedy, selfish, and cruel person heedless of the well being and safety of their people. You see the problems? Wait, there is more.The king sees that the land is weak and decaying and breaking apart because of the injustice of the nobility, but somehow entirely ignores the lack of a strong and unifying political power which his own office should supply. And so, he sets for to solve the conundrum with the mindset of a human rights defender. However,if you’d like to mesh UDHR with the medieval mindset you need to tread carefully lest you want to end up in a world of paradoxes. And there are paradoxes abound.“First we bring justice, then we bring change,” thinks the King and so he revives the Greatcoats.If you believe that Greatcoats are basically Musketeers but with coats instead of capes, you couldn’t be more mistaken. On the surface, you would think that the Greatcoats are warriors or perhaps some form of an elite fighting formation. But effectively,they are a weird cross-breed between troubadours and lawyers. They need to know laws and they sing them. According to the design, the power of the Greatcoat theoretically relies on the ability to render just judgment “as a solution to the fracturing in the heart of the people.” And yet, the Traitor’s Blade is not filled with legal nuances of sophisticated judicial interpretations, it is all about fighting styles, parries, and the like. Greatcoat training is military first, legal second. So you essentially end up being a fighting judge or a martial advocate. Tell this to anyone studying hard for the bar (just to make them laugh).The king is not bothered thataside from his 140 coated darlings there is no force, no official structure, no state institutions to uphold justice or enforce the laws. And don’t be deceived, it is explained that the Greatcoats, were the king’s gift to the world and the most important accomplishment of his lifetime. Why did he invest only in his expensive toys and nothing else? Why did he do so at a great expense of the whole country?What is the law existing on the paper or in the head of the ruler without a political process to make it implemented if not a utopia?In contrast to very mature, grimdark content, including rape, torture and other vile deeds, the political design is so improbable and idealistic, that it places the Traitor’s Blade in the YA category.Great monarchs need time to build strong kingdoms, it doesn’t happen overnight and rarely through revolutions. I am sure this wisdom is easily discernible in every history book available so it escapes me how a scholarly man like Paelis, could ignore this simple dogma of sustainable governance.“The dream doesn’t have to be dead if we keep believing in it.”There are unexplained plotholesthe wise king with all kinds of money and contacts is disturbingly easy to dispose of when the Dukes gang up on him. The people, who benefited from monarchy, didn’t really love the king and hate the Greatcoats with venom., plot conveniencesone word: Tailor!, plot curiositiestake the little girl Aline, how she survives the carnage of her family and is saved in spite of being captured by the ruthless Duke! but most importantly, how she behaves and talks (like a woman of 30 not a girl of 13)of which the main quest of the weirdestJust before the untimely demise of the King each of the Greatcoats has received from him a separate mission calledgaes. We do not know what these are for Kest or Brasti. Falcio’s quest is to find King’s Charoites that is, to say it crudely King’s illegal brats produced in secret as if he couldn’t just marry and beget legitimate offspring. But Falcio doesn’t really know what he’s looking for because the king sends his First Cantor, his most trusted friend!, on a quest without clear cut directions and guidelines (“Look for them but do not expect to find them”). So our poor Falcio follows the trail of rumour, and gossip and his stubborn hope. How ridiculous is that? Similarly, I do not understand how is possible that the dukes killed the king so easily but struggle to establish new monarchyand one-dimensional villains (save one)(Trin, and oh what a good plot twist that was!).In spite of these shortcomings, Traitor's Blade is an enjoyable novel and I have high hopes for the whole series.Other Greatcoats books:2.Knight's Shadow★★★☆☆3.Saint's Blood★☆☆☆☆4.Tyrant's Throne★☆☆☆☆