Because my old review for this was trash, we're just going to rewrite the whole review.Kyle and Kimberly are the perfect high school couple. Quarterback and cheerleader. If that doesn't scream cliche I don't know what does. Then Kimberly decides she doesn't want to be with Kyle and breaks up with him on the night of their graduation party. To make matters worse, they get in a car accident right after she breaks the news. Kyle wakes up in a hospital only to find out that Kimberly is dead. He meets a girl named Marley and his life changes.Spoilers will be marked by 🛑 emojiCharactersKyle- he was pretty basic, but that's what I get for reading about a romance that was basic. At least at the beginning. Kyle grows to be his own character and I really enjoyed that he grew out of that standard ideal he built for himself.Marley- I loved Marley. She was a perfect friend for Kyle. Through her own trauma, she could relate to Kyle and that's what I really really enjoyed. Through their relationship we see Kyle grow into a totally different person. I want a friend like Marley.Kyle's mom- I didn't really like her. She was trying to help Kyle, but she was going about it the wrong way. She was very pushy and kept trying to make Kyle feel better about what happened. After a reread, I realized that Kyle's mom didn't really mean to push him that far. In the end, however, it was Marley who brought him out of his shell.Sam- Sam was something else. I feel pretty neutral toward him. He didn't help Kyle's growth at all, but at the same time we learned so much about who Kyle used to be through Sam. He was kind of an asshole, but I understood why as I kept reading.PlotThis plot was by far one of the best plots I have ever read. The plot twist was HUGE. I didn't see it coming. But I will wait until the spoilers to give that away. The plot basically begins when Marley and Kyle meet for the first time. Kyle for the first 1/8 of this book is moping around because Kimberly is gone and he doesn't know what to do with himself. When he finally gets his ass outside he meets Marley. Marley is special because she understands Kyle's pain and can relate to him.WritingThe writing is beautiful. This is the kind of writing I really really can feel the emotion. I can rarely find books that give me some sort of raw emotion, especially coming from a male's perspective. The climax had me on the edge of my seat wanting more. I was DYING to know what was going to happen next.🛑🛑🛑Spoilers🛑🛑🛑I would like to know what drugs these authors are on. Seriously. That plot twist was one I couldn't have guessed in a million years. The plot twist happens halfway through the book. When I first read it I knew something was wrong because there's no way that half of this book would be about Marely and Kyle dating. I couldn't even have imagined a plot twist so big. Kimberly isn't dead and Kyle was in a coma. Wow. Just wow. When Kyle wakes up, he's confused and he tries to find Marley and many people are convinced he's crazy. When he does find her, he finds out that she hasn't spoken a word since her sister died (Marley had a twin sister who got run over in front of her. Marley could have saved her). He eventually finds out that the reason why he imagined being friends with her was because she was reading him a story that she made up. Kyle was Marley's way of trying to fall in love and Marley feared that Kyle wouldn't love her after he woke up. This part had me in tears. I was trying to keep it together, but I failed. Marley is such a relatable character to me and I love her so much for that. Her struggles were real and you could feel them. I will not be giving away the climax, but that too had me in tears. I am thoroughly addicted to this book and Five Feet Apart.🛑🛑🛑Spoilers over🛑🛑🛑Overall, I loved this book. I could feel the emotions pouring out from every page and I could feel how relatable the characters were. Truly an amazing, gut wrenching book. I hope this isn't the last we see of these authors because they really know how to write. Truly. And the fact I finished it in less than 24 hours proves that there needs to be more books written by this author.And the cover is beautiful. I love these covers.Edit 3/1/2021All of the stars in the universe, but GR only lets me do five.This was a million times better than Five Feet Apart.RTC