I feel somewhat unqualified to rate this book. Let me preface this by saying I only saw part of the blurb and didn't read the fine print on the cover. Plus if I had I wouldn't have known what ABDL was.I only dabble in the DDlg kink/trope. And that is only because I inadvertently stumbled upon books by Laylah Roberts' that I loved. Did I understand and like everything? No. But the books were good and I liked the characters.So now that you know my background on the subject let me ramble away.This book had many aspects in common with the other books I had read. It had strong chemistry between the characters and was well written. But I was not fully comfortable with Luke's desires. When he first mentions how big of a turn on it would be to see Ally in a diaper I was a bit flummoxed.I knew via other books that this was something that could happen but I wasn't prepared for it.I pretty much kept reading because the characters and writing were good, I hate DNF-ing and I wanted to push myself to understand why I reacted so vividly. To say getting to the end was a challenge would not be an exaggeration. And I found my squeamishness at some scenes a bit odd since I openly read some dark dubious and twisted books. The best I can say is I personally have a boundary for books containing DDlg and humiliation aspects. My mind just doesn't understand the appeal he would find in changing her diaper after she "filled" it. But then again some other readers might struggle to understand why I love dark romance books where sometimes even the FMC gets hurt or kidnapped. To each their own respectfully.So given how this book unfolds I have a dilemma when it comes to rating it. Part of me feels too unqualified and the other feels that even though it's not my "cup of tea", I finished it and should be able to rate it.Everything flowed nicely up until the "conflict". That itself felt exaggerated and I couldn't take the drama seriously. They only knew each other for a short while so who cares if he's rich and you just found out. Sure he said he'd never lie. But that drama was kind of laughable to me. Anyways after they talked it out the book wrapped up really quickly by teasing the 2nd book in the series. Which has me pondering the idea of reading it.Considering all that I'd rate this book between a 3 & 4. It gets props for being well written and having good characters and chemistry. Plus being able to make me curious about book 2. But it takes hit for the "conflict" and my above mentioned struggle with the ABDL aspects.