I guess I need to take a break from this author because I keep expecting something better, rush to get the book then get super disappointed.OLD Charlotte McGinley? Amazing.ALL her new books that seem to come out way too quickly? Rushed, repeated sections of the previous books, lack emotional depth, no real character development or growth, unrealistic plots or scenes that make no sense and are easily disregarded and shallow side characters that are only mentioned to further the next book.For some reason the editing has gone downhill again too. Wrong words, misspelled words, extra words, sentences that run on or don’t make sense, lots of errors.I’m also over calling these books standalones, needing to read them all (I did) but then getting entire sections and scenes of the previous books repeated for the new books. It’s lazy IMO.Anchor (Travis) is our MMC and Heaven is our FMC and their son is Micha. OW is named Ginger (Harley) who Anchor fucked in high school once and became OTT obsessed with him and bullied Heaven the entire rest of high school then applied to be a club whore when Anchor prospected.Prologue- Instant love in high school. Anchor is absolutely obsessed with Heaven from Day 1. Sees her, likes her, approaches her, dates her, marries her, knocks her up in two years. They are 17/18 at the beginning and 19/20 when shit goes down. Then of course 29/30 when story picks up.Anchor doesn’t even really want to be in the MC but feels like he’s forced into it because his dad is a member and his best friend (Steal) will be President someday. Reflects that he absolutely hates cheaters because his father cheated on his mom (at least twice) and had an affair baby (his sister Cassie). When his mother tried to leave his dad, she was forcibly kidnapped and unable to leave club grounds until “eventually” she gave in, forgave his dad and raised the affair baby.Heaven is wicked smart, plans to go to college and is in AP classes despite having a very rough home life. Her mother goes through men like water and terrible men at that. She’s moved at least 2x a year every year and almost been sexually assaulted by her mother’s boyfriends quite a few times. She loathes cheaters obviously especially since her mother’s boyfriends constantly cheat on her.Book opens to Steal, Anchor and Colt being surprised with their MC patches unexpectedly (it was a surprise). Club decides to throw them a huge party.Anchor is married to Heaven and they have a 2-month-old newborn son. Because Anchor wasn’t officially patched yet, he hasn’t told anyone (besides his parents) that Heaven even exists or that they’re married with a son.What? Prospects are allowed to have women. Stupidest excuse ever.He rushes home to Heaven and tells her to get ready to party.She A. Tells him she’s still breastfeeding and doesn’t have a sitter. B. She’s still tired and worn out from being 8 weeks postpartum. C. They’re supposed to have a special dinner with each other tonight.Anchor gets annoyed, basically calls her a selfish bitch after reflecting they haven’t had sex in 3 months (last month of pregnancy was rough + 8 weeks postpartum recovery), yells at her loud enough to make the baby cry and stomps out. Goes straight to the clubhouse and starts taking shots. Ginger approaches butt naked and he picks her up, tosses her over his shoulder and fucks her. He knew exactly what he was doing so no "drunken mistake" here. He resented his 19 year old wife and infant son.Heaven at home is feeling really guilty about not supporting Anchor on his special day. She arranges childcare for an hour and plans to tell Anchor he hurt her feelings byforgetting their one-year anniversaryand if he’ll just come home with her, she’ll make everything right. Never mind that she’s a teenage bride, teenage mother, dropped out of college and works nights to help make ends meet. But sure, she’s the selfish one.insert sarcasmShe shows up at the clubhouse and asks for Anchor. Gets told he’s fucking Ginger. Goes up to his room, witnesses him fingerbanging Ginger’s kitty while fucking her ass and groaning about how good it feels “better than the sex he had in the last few months.”Heaven takes off, gives her ring to Steal who tries to stop her, tells him to tell Anchor she wants a divorce and happy first anniversary.Ten Years LaterAnchor and Heaven are still married. Every time she files for divorce, Anchor pays the judges off or threatens them so it gets lost in the system. When she tried to sell the house, he blocked that too.Biggest plot hole comes up again, supposedly in TEN fucking years, the club still has NO idea Anchor is married or has a son. Because Heaven doesn’t want him, he can’t claim her as his old lady (huh?!?) but *for her protection* he keeps her a secret from everyone but his parents and Steal.Again, what the what? She lives on club lands. She’s married to Anchor. He takes their son all the time and goes to all his school events and sports games. But for her protection, the club can’t know about his own wife!?Later, this plot whole gets worse because we know Steal/Cassidy, Acid/Perrie, Piston/Natalie, their children, his parents, his sister Cassie all know about Heaven too so again, WHY is it a secret from the club?Even better, the club whore Ginger is still around and torments Heaven every chance she gets. She also tries to sexually assault Anchor almost every time she’s around him. And the club “can’t” kick her out?Again, these plots make zero fucking sense. ESPECIALLY WHEN THEY INVOLVE THE PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT OF SAID CLUB.Oh and Anchor’s mother hates Heaven. Because SHE forgave Anchor’s father for cheating on her and raised HIS affair baby, she thinks Heaven is a selfish twat who should just GET OVER IT.Even better, even though they are not together, do not live together, occasionally, Heaven and Anchor fall in bed together. They both don’t sleep with anyone else (mainly because she’s cockblocked from moving on EVER) so they fight and have sex. Lingering feelings, co-parenting, whatever. Heaven always gets mad at herself for giving in and cries when Anchor leaves. It’s super unhealthy that he’s forced her to live this life because he selfishly doesn’t want to give her up.Anchor even gets mad when Heaven got tested for STI’s after he cheated on her. Selfish prick.Anchor’s bright idea to FORCE Heaven to be with him because after ten years she still wants to move the fuck on and get divorced is to throw away or tamper with her birth control forcing another baby on her.If this was a book where a woman trapped a man, we’d be ready to burn her. But he wants to force another baby on her, when they already have a son just to save their marriage, it’s nauseating.Heaven to her credit, is a pretty kick ass FMC. She’s stuck to her guns and has for the most part, stayed separated from Anchor for ten flipping years. She’s forced in some ways (like not being able to get a divorce) to do things she doesn’t want to but she’s put herself through school secretly for six years, worked nights as a stripper so she won’t take Anchor’s money and raised her son as a mostly single parent. They haven't lived together in ten years. She also passed the bar exam to become a lawyer all on her own.Her mother is also a POS and likes to constantly rub it in Heaven’s face that “she told her” that Anchor would hurt her, cheat on her and probably liked sex better with Ginger than he ever did Heaven which is why he cheated. She’s super toxic.Heaven’s also tried to date but Anchor uses their son Micha to screw up his mother’s dates with fake emergencies and the like. So major emotional manipulation of not only her but the kid too.Anchor just keeps calling Heaven “stubborn” instead of acknowledging how deeply he hurt her.Only AFTER ten years does he finally consider therapy and couple’s therapy. Rolling my eyes.Anchor learns during therapy that he BARELY knows his own wife. He doesn’t know about her mom, he didn’t know about her terrible childhood, he doesn’t know she was almost assaulted multiple times, he didn’t know Ginger/Harley bullied Heaven, he didn’t know she overheard him telling his father he wanted her to terminate the pregnancy, he didn’t realize that he ignored her while prospecting, was barely home, she worked nights and made more money than he did all while pregnant.In fact, he didn't even acknowledge that his wife who he “loves so much and won’t let go" while he was prospecting. She cooked for him, she cleaned for him, worked nights, paid most the bills and he even almost missed the birth of his own son all for the club. And he still blames her being stubborn. He didn't even know his own mother calls her abusing her verbally and has for ten years about what a selfish bitch she is for not forgiving her son for cheating on her!!!He doesn’t know she doesn’t use ANY of his money for anything remotely to do with the house. The only thing she uses Anchor’s money for is essentials like clothes and after school activities for Micha while she struggles to put food on the table. He's oblivious. She’s leaving paycheck to paycheck while her son has a savings account of almost half a million dollars.There’s also SOOOOO much stupid other woman drama. It’s fun if you like that and I do but in this book it was so unnecessary except to literally add drama.Heaven doesn’t even know that for ten years, since that fateful night, Anchor has only slept with her and remained true because A. The dumbass has never told her and B. Ginger purposely runs into Heaven and torments her constantly. Tells Heaven that she and Anchor have been sleeping together for years longer even than Heaven has known Anchor. And Heaven has ZERO reason to doubt it which makes things worse. Anchor doesn't and hasn't lived with them so why wouldn't she assume he's screwing other women these past ten years?Especially because NO ONE KNOWS THEY’RE MARRIED. Even funnier, Anchor breathes fire and smoke and jealousy when he finds out his wife has worked at a strip club the last six years but she works behind the bar and the WHOLE strip club knows she's married and off limits.But Anchor can't say the same since no one knows he's married. Double standards. In fact, he thinks her working at a strip club in a bikini is worse than him cheating "just once".Like all her books they aren’t bad just unrealistic as fuck. Out of all her books I felt Heaven deserved the most to move on. She won’t forget or forgive his cheating. She tried to get a divorce for ten fucking years. She tried to move on. She tried to forget. She tried to see other people. She lived the life of a single mother for ten years until Anchor abuses her trust and gets her pregnant again without her knowledge only to have her MISCARRY when she’s hit by a flipping car. When Anchor finds out, he tells Steal to make sure to raise his kid b/c if Heaven dies, he'll commit suicide.He IGNORES the fact that she JUST finished law school and wants to work but he wants her barefoot and pregnant and tied to him so she can’t leave him. He doesn't even know she's been killing herself working nights for 6 years. He's one of the most selfish MC's I've ever read about.Heaven's in a coma for a month and instead of taking care of their son, Anchor goes to underground fights everyday. When Heaven wakes up and gets to go home, Anchor is afraid she'll want to leave so he tells her to wait in the clubhouse (WITH GINGER) while he's in church. Then he threatens to keep their son if she leaves him. Heaven later comforts him and tells him she still loves him despite everything but she doesn't trust him.Rolling my eyes again**Her mom does apologize and get therapy.Boring, predictable, she same formula regurgitated as her other books and weak plot lines with holes the size of a car to drive through.Now don’t get me wrong, it’s fiction. It’s entertaining. It’s a MC book with stupid Alphas. Her books suck you in with the D R A M A but the quality has really gone downhill.IRL it’d be emotional, sexual and mental abuse with guilt and gaslighting thrown on top.It’s TOXIC as fuck. There's no HEA because you can't call it love when she literally has NO choice other than you. He TRAPS her and forces her into a life she no longer wants just like his dad did with his mother.