reread #idfk i reread this too many times—5 starsthis is my favorite friends to lovers book ofALL. TIME.also, this is the best book in the series imo. like, Joss and Braden who?? i can't think of any other friends to lovers books that would top this cuz this is s u p e r i o r. like the 5-star michelin steak, only the 1% can afford it kind of superior.even though my reading taste has changeda lot, i still love this book and this ismy go-to reread if i read something with shitty grovellingor if the heroine forgives the hero after one grand gesture OR if the heroine has betraying body syndrome and gives in too easily or any of the other shit i hate.but anyways, why is this my go-to reread you ask? well this hasTHE BEST GROVELLINGi've ever read. hands down. why? because the heroine knows WHAT👏🏼SHE👏🏼DESERVES👏🏼 and she won't settle for less. whenever she doesn't forgive him and makes him work for it? i just tear up cuz i- i'm just so proud.like, yes ma'am. please make the hero suffer some more thank you.so here's what the book is about:↳Nate(H) is a certified man ho who has a lot of experience, whileLiv(h) has zero experience (she ain't a virgin tho). since Liv is insecure with her physical appearance and her lack of dating life and she's into this guy she sees at work, Nate offers to help her. after Nate gives a tutorial on how to flirt and how to kiss properly, their lessons turn sexual and well, y'all know how that goes.to be fair, i thinksome might find the tropes here annoyingcuz Nate's introduction was kinda iffy since, again, he's the ho of the group and the heroine sees him flirting with someone he was about to take home. i don't know why i overlooked this the first time but now im just likeuhh... yeah. that wasn't fun. despite the fact that Nate was the man ho of the group,this book has the least problematic/annoying OW drama out of all the books in the series. even though he wasn't celibate after he met the heroine (this book is 7 months after the last book so that's how much they've known each other), we were spared from all that unlike other books in this series.y'all don't believe me?↳Exhibit A:moonlight on nightingale way (#6)H and h are neighbors and H pulls awallbangermove where he has sex every night and heroine hears him every. damn. night. h hears the same OW for 3 nights straight and H sleeps with this OW while h is already falling in love with him and vice versa.↳Exhibit B:down london road (#2)H thinks of h while having sex with his girlfriend. oh, and there's cheating in this one.i could go on and on and on so yup. this book has the least annoying OW/OM drama.also,the heroine wasn't in love or pining after him, in fact, she was more into the OM than the hero himself in the beginning. she does feel jealousy but it's not what you think. she feels jealous of Nate cuz it's so easy for him to "date" and talk to the opposite sex so i guess those are the silverlining.as for Olivia, i actually didn't mind her insecurities."I don't want to be the person who looks in the mirror and hates what she sees, or be the person that moans about how she can't interact with a guy long enough to secure a date. That's not a good person to be, Nate."her personality, dorkiness and sarcastic sense of humor made me love her. also, imma be real here for a sec, i can relate to her insecurities cuz i can be shy when it comes to my dating life too soo it is what iss. the only thing i found annoying here was thatshe needed Nate to validate the fact that she IS hot and sexybut i guess that's part of the plot so whatever.i actually really liked Nate. he's the type of guy who's goofy and nerdy but when it comes to the bedroom, he turns into this possessive dude that just left meI HAVE A WEAKNESS FOR NERDY HEROES OKAY? don't judge.now let's get into thegrovelling. the reason why Nate fucked up is because when Olivia was pouring her heart out and told him she loves him, he told her he'll never love her and walked away from her. Nate has baggage cuz he lostAlana(his first love) when he was young which then made him a man ho and have commitment problems so yes, this hasdead ex drama. he even has a tattoo of OWs initial by his heart...yikes i know. Olivia thinks she'll never be the love of his life and will forever be second best to his first love.the grovelling here lasted a looong time and that's one of the reasons why i love this book.Olivia never gave in until Nate proved she was the love of his life, even though he already told her he loved her at one point. Nate is not the type of hero who gives the heroine space. nope. he's insistent as fuck. and ya know what? im glad he was cuz it SHOWS how much he was willing to fight for her."I never meant to fall in love with you. But I did. I felt it the first night I made love to you. I tried to walk away then because I've never felt so lost and yet so fucking found as i felt that night looking into your eyes as I moved inside you."i mean...i felt that. he does A LOT to prove his love for her and i honestly think this is the only book that left me 100% satisfied with the grovelling.and btw, if y'all wanna know theOW drama (SPOILERS)here is the dead ex drama, 3 scenes of Olivia seeing Nate flirt with random women, and seeing him with this random OW after their break up but apparently he never did anything to her. as forOM drama, h kisses a random OM as part of her lesson, h goes on dates with OM after the breakup and OM is also the reason why the lessons started in the first place.anyways, we need more books with grovelling scenes such as this one cuz im finding these lacking nowadays since apparently betraying body syndrome and H's being an asshole and makes the h work for it even though they're the ones who didn't do anything wrong is the trend nowadays. i can name plenty of books like this but just look at my 1-2 star rating for 2020 and if you know... YOU KNOW._______________________original rating (march 2018)—5 stars