Trigger Warnings:Taking sex tape without FMC’s knowledge and sharing it to FMC’s father, revenge porn released to public, slut-shaming, blackmail, sex tape of minor, death of loved ones, alcoholism, parental death from car accident, death of parent from sepsis at childbirth, child abuse from parent, attempted suicide, depression, child neglect, starve child, mentions of graphic suicide ideas, suicide ideation, trauma, abusive exI want to read all the books in the series to get to the latest book, Best Kept Secret, sinceMelis loving it. I readBest of Meand LOVED it. This book had such an angsty start and the writing was so fucking good. We started off with the betrayal and I felt so much anger and disgust towards the MMC Noah. The FMC Stella lost everything, seeing her slowly decline into depression was devastating. She kinda grew a backbone but she didn’t really have one against Noah, even though she claimed to, only sometimes. Whenever an MMC betrays the FMC, I want to see them suffer and grovel. But Noah barely suffered, he just felt a lil guilt. Even when his friend was disgusted with him, his reaction was disgusting.“She doesn't have a lot of friends," I told him.He nodded. "That's tough…going through what she is and having no one. That….""Royal, I did what I had to do. I can't change a damn thing now. Can you stop beating me up for it?" I slammed my hand on the table and saw a few heads turn toward us.”I’ll go into detail in the spoilers but I was too pissed to enjoy it. The first half was 4.5 stars since the angst was so good, I cried for Stella. But the second half was 1 star, I hated it. I wish things went differently, so imma just give this 3 stars. I did love the side characters and family members. The writing was amazing but the plot pissed me off.Stella has lived a lonely life with walls to prevent people from getting into her life. When Noah persists on getting to know her, she falls for him and he betrays her in the worst possible way. Now Stella has nothing but Noah seems to be everywhere she goes.Now for spoilersThis takes place in Savannah, Stella was invited to Noah’s office and thought he was proposing. She has been dating him for 3 months and fell in love with him after he was persistent in getting to know her. When she got there, her father, the senator named Baron, was there. Noah shows her father a sex video he took of Stella without her knowledge where she says she is Noah’s whore. Stella felt so betrayed and sat there silently crying as her father got pissed off. Noah did this as revenge since Baron did the same to Noah’s sister Neveah. Neveah was 16 when Baron got a 17 year old to seduce her and take a sex video of her. He used the video to threaten Noah’s dad. Noah’s dad did what he could to protect his daughter by stepping down and Baron became senator. Noah’s dad became an alcoholic and died in a car accident. Neveah attempted suicide right after but was saved. Noah wanted Baron to feel the same way. So he seduced Stella and found that it was hard for her to let people in. They only had sex that night and it was nonstop. Noah knew everything about Stella before they started talking so he knew how to manipulate her into liking him. He set up the cameras, chose the video to show the dad which only showed Stella, then blackmailed the dad. He thought of Stella as collateral even if he felt a small tinge of guilt.In the video, he tells Stella to call herself a slut and whore for him. Noah would call Stella “Sweet” since she was so kind and sweet. He knew she didn’t have many friends and made sure no one knew they were dating. He thought Stella and Baron were close since Baron helped Stella invest in the company called Savannah Lace where she was a partner. Stella was a landscaper who loved gardening. She bought the home of her dreams and renovated it exactly how she wanted it. Baron tells Stella to pay him back the money he lended her which surprises Noah. Stella said she loved Noah the night they had sex. He knew his sister fell into depression and almost killed herself but he hurt Stella anyway for revenge. Even when he thinks he is falling for her, he ruins her life. Despite knowing everything about her, they had a lot in common so their relationship was real. Noah wants Baron to give him a bridge project so Baron says yes. Once Baron leaves, Noah tells Stella to leave or he will have her removed. Stella had a bracelet from him, so she put it on his desk and left.Noah’s friend Royal was pissed with Noah. Even though Noah claims to feel guilty, he doesn’t wanna admit it to Royal and insults Stella.“Christ, Noah, what the fuck happened to you? You recorded yourself having sex with this woman, and showed it to her father. How far have you fallen? What did this woman ever do to you?""She gave excellent head, and she was something else in the sack." I felt bile rise inside me when I said that, tried to be casual about it.”Stella has no money and has to pay her dad back, so she decides to sell her dream home. She loved her home for the garden, she was always there planting, even Noah knew this. Aurora let Stella stay at her condo and it was nice to see her happy with Gabe. Stella has to pull out as a partner from Savannah Lace and is demoted to an employee since she took her money share away to pay her dad back. Stella and Nina started the company together and Nina was sweet but they couldn’t keep her as a partner. I loved Luna in the last book for looking out for Aurora and loved her here too. Stella starts losing weight and barely sleeps. Noah hears that Stella is selling her house and bought it. Noah’s godmother is Nina and he realized if Stella pulls out as a partner, Nina will lose money. So he invested in the company and became a partner. Not only did he take a sex video of Stella and blackmail her dad, he bought her home, and he took her position as a partner at her company. Noah makes a speech in front of the company to announce he is a partner at Savannah Lace. Noah says he wants to be a silent partner. It has been months and he has done nothing for Stella so far. He feels guilty when he sees her but he did nothing to help her. I wish his regret was instant, like when he saw Stella crying he realized he fucked up. Instead, he just feels a little guilt seeing Stella not look like her normal self. He goes to her office to tell her he didn’t mean for things to go this way but Stella barely looks at him. I LOVED how the story was going since she shut him out and he missed seeing her sunshine self. I loved how she brushed him off and told him she had a meeting, telling him congratulations. But what I hated was Stella still loved Noah. Like bruh why do you still love him after he betrayed you like that? Luna started noticing that something went on between Stella and Noah and threatened Noah.“I'm going to find out what the hell is goin' on," she warned me. "Stella doesn't have a lot of people in her life, but she has me. I'm keeping an eye on you, Carter.”They go to an event and Noah is welcomed back to Savannah. He is seen with Eden, someone he used to fuck on and off before he met Stella. The only relief was that he didn’t fuck around after/when with Stella. Eden would kiss him and he would let her. But he would tell Eden they aren’t together and he doesn’t want her. Eden keeps threatening him with her rich parents and since Noah doesn’t wanna make a scene, he doesn’t push her away. Lev, Luna’s brother, hugs Stella, comforting her since she looks sad. Stella stopped wearing makeup and wears black all the time. Noah sees Stella with Lev and gets jealous despite being with Eden. Lev is best friends with a guy named Dom who Luna seems to have a hate-crush on, Dom is usually fucking around. Noah tries to talk to Stella but Eden follows. Noah says he has nothing to do with Eden but Stella wants him to leave her alone.Stella slowly spirals into depression, the way it was described hit too close to home. Feeling no motivation to do the things you love, not wanting to get out of bed, feeling numb to the world. Nina offers Stella a job for a museum that Silas owns, but he is Eden’s brother. It’s a big project where Stella is supposed to help with their garden. Nina thought Stella would be excited but Stella gave her no reaction. Everyone is concerned for Stella but she shuts them out. Noah thinks about his sister’s suicide attempt and is scared Stella might do the same. He asks if she is okay and she lashes out at him. She laughs when he asks if she won’t do anything. What’s crazy to me is months pass by and Noah did nothing except telling Stella he didn’t mean for this to happen. Stella knew she needed therapy and called for a therapist.It was an effort to get up, brush my teeth, take a shower, and find something to wear. Everything was a mountain to climb. Time would heal, I knew that. This wasn't my first or even my second rodeo, but while I healed, the pain of living was debilitating.When Stella meets Silas, he asks if Stella can hook him up with Baron. Everyone goes to Stella for her dad when they aren’t close. She snaps at him and when Noah comes up to her, she is pissed. She says that Noah ruined her life while Baron’s life is fine. Noah realizes she is right but doesn’t do anything to fix it. He thought it’s better to avoid Stella since she doesn’t want him around. Stella presents her ideas for the garden museum but Eden tries to ruin the meeting. Nina defended Stella and told Eden to stop. Eden can tell Noah and Stella had something going on so she was pissed. When Stella is dragged to meet up with Aurora, Nova, and Luna, she is annoyed. Nova is Nina’s assistant, all three of them work with Stella. Lev and Dom show up and Luna and Dom bicker while people tell them to just fuck already. Stella started cussing since she was bitter with the world. Noah shows up and Stella leaves so he follows her. Stella tells him to leave her alone when he offers her a ride. Noah is relieved that Stella seems jealous of Eden which annoyed me since I wanted Stella not to care.Stella was abused as a child by her parents. Her mom died at childbirth from sepsis and her dad never wanted her. He married Whitney who hated Stella and who had two kids, Baron who goes by JR, and Gage. Gage was a lil nicer but didn’t stand up for Stella while JR also abused Stella. When Stella was 15 and tried to go to a program, JR dented Baron’s car and lied that it was Stella. So Stella wasn’t able to go to the program. Noah feels bad but does nothing. Eden gets more pissed since Noah continues to reject her. He wants to be with Stella but Stella wants nothing to do with him. Eden threatens him, saying if he doesn’t get with her, she will get revenge. Stella doesn’t wanna work at Savannah Lace anymore. She has a friend in San Francisco and asks to help her find a job. Eden shows up at Stella’s home and asks her what she has to do with Noah. This pisses Stella off, she tells Nina she quits from the company and texts Noah about what Eden did. She then shuts off her phone and goes away to a bed and breakfast place for the weekend. Eden visited JR who was stupid enough to tell Eden about the sex tape. JR and Baron are close so Baron showed him the video so that they could use it as revenge against Noah someday. It was so fucking stupid. Eden secretly downloaded the video and leaked it to the world.Stella is prepared to work for her two weeks before leaving. Noah says he’s sorry and starts calling her baby and Sweet while Nina asks if she is okay. Stella finds out about the leak and has a breakdown. This is where the story really went downhill for me. Noah was the reason the video existed but Noah acts like he’s Stella’s saviour. Like bitch please. He tells Stella they should fake being engaged and go on a talk show. Everyone starts slut-shaming Stella and people start pulling out of Savannah Lace and don’t wanna do business with Stella. Silas tries to get out of it but Noah threatens him since he knows Eden was behind it, he was able to track her IP address so he has proof. Noah got Stella a blue daisy ring which he bought during their three months together, he knew it was for her. They go to the talk show and act like a couple and I hated it. Stella says that what they do in their bedroom is private. Noah was protected since he could’ve gone to jail for revenge porn and blackmail.He tells Stella that they need to live together to make this believable. Stella finds out he bought her house and feels angry. But Noah says he couldn’t let her sell the house since she loved it. So they stayed in separate rooms and acted like roommates but Stella was slowly warming up to Noah. When she has a breakdown, Noah holds her.“I want to go to sleep and not wake up," she whimpered. "I just don't want to wake up anymore."Fuck this. I settled into her bed, leaning against the headboard, and pulled her into my arms."Don't say that, Stella. You have so much to live for, Sweet. So much. Don't let me take that away from you.""I have nothing." Her voice was ragged with pain. "Nothing. I don't know who I am anymore.”I just couldn’t understand how Stella still loved this guy. When she broke down, they cuddled in bed together. Neveah was angry with Noah but she got over it and visits. Neveah tells Stella that when this happened to her at 16, she had a crush on the guy who did it. She says with therapy, she worked on herself. Stella was taking antidepressants and was going to therapy as well. Stella kept shutting Noah down when he tried to be with her. He keeps calling her “Sweet” or “Baby” and Stella tells him to stop. Royal helped Neveah during her traumatic teens and they have something going on. When they go to a party, Stella runs into an abusive ex. She dated him for 4 months and eventually left him. He tries to talk to Stella but Noah takes her away and threatens the ex, all of Stella’s friends come to help. JR shows up to Stella’s place to apologize for everything. Stella doesn’t give a fuck anymore, she reminds us constantly.Stella tells Noah she plans to leave after things die down and go to San Francisco since she got a job there. Even though the pay is half of what she is making at Savannah Lace, she wants a fresh start. Noah tells Stella he doesn’t want her to leave and says he wants to court her. Stella is already softened up at this point so they go on a picnic. He kisses her and she lets him, she says she is scared and makes comments that he might be recording it but Noah says he isn’t. After this, Stella somehow starts trusting Noah. They go on more dates and act more coupley. I was annoyed and after another date, Stella trusted Noah enough to have sex. I’m not sure how she trusts the guy after everything she went through. To make it worse, he calls her “slut” in the middle and Stella was fine with it. She made a joke of him possibly recording her but Noah says he wouldn’t. I don’t know how she was good with him calling her that after he betrayed her. Noah claims that he likes dirty talking and it wasn’t for the cameras. He tries to gaslight her by saying that it was always about them but Stella reminds him that he was the one who set the cameras in the right angles to record her. Noah takes Stella on a boat and they are happy after their long day of fucking. Neveah stayed with Royal and something happened. When she came back, she wanted to get away from Royal and go back to Los Angeles. Once she leaves, Stella and Noah are practically together even though she still thinks about wanting to leave.Later the cops are coming after Noah because the public found out that he recorded Stella without her permission. Stella’s stepmom Whitney was behind it since she was pissed with Noah for telling her and Baron to stop hurting Stella. Baron lost his job as a senator and started cheating openly on Whitney. Stella calls JR saying he owes her a favour and to help her get married to Noah. Married partners can’t testify against each other in court. It was all so stupid, Noah says that he wants Stella to have a nicer wedding but Stella asks why he keeps delaying it. They get married and say they love each other. Stella says she believes their vows so if they ever end things, it's because Noah is dead. I loved the beginning of this story since it was so angsty. But Noah didn’t do anything for MONTHS bro, he just sat there feeling guilty and sorry for himself to see Stella change. His “grovelling” was after the leak, I swear if the leak didn’t happen he wouldn’t have done shit. And he barely grovelled, he just took Stella to picnics and said he was sorry but also acted like he didn’t do anything when they confronted people who hurt Stella. He was called out and he had moments where he was self-aware, but he would just make a comment like “I’m not any better but they suck,” kinda thing. I feel like I would’ve liked this more if Noah felt regret the instant he showed the video. OR if he planned to do the revenge thing and never went through with it but Stella found the video. And I HATED how they continued with calling Stella a slut or whore during sex, it gave me the major ick since it was originally used in a way to hurt her, even if he claims he didn’t do it for the video. Stella forgave him so easily once they got engaged. I do love Stella’s friends, especially Luna, I can’t wait to see her story. I believe Nova’s story is next and she is Nina’s assistant so I’m curious.Stay safe folks!