reread (2020): 5 stars— still hate Cole more than i hate Joffrey and Ramsay combined.— karma is literally the queen here since Jordan dated Cole's dad. best accidental revenge ever.* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *original rating (2018):5 STARSThis book was apage-turnerfor me! I literally could not stop reading because I was so hooked, even from the beginning. Whenever Penelope Douglas comes out with a new novel, I’m always so excited to read it because she writes such intriguing stories that hassteamy as hellsex scenes. Honestly though, like, her steamy scenes are so freaking great. And this book does not disappoint at all.— The heroine,Jordan(19), loves anything about the 80s. She’s always had an old soul because she is wise beyond her years and she had to grow up pretty early because of her lifestyle when she was young. She’s smart, understanding, and super mature. And I like her but to be honest, she’s not my personal favorite. I’m pretty biased though because I love sarcastic and witty heroines that makes me laugh out loud. Just because that is my personal preference, does not mean that Jordan is a horrible heroine. She’s actually pretty great and I admire her resilience, her perseverance, and her apparent independence.— The hero,Pike(38), is the father of her "boyfriend", Cole, at the time... damn. The drama though... AWKWARD. Even though he’s quite old (19 years older than her), he is still so hot and has a young soul, but also very mature and responsible. He is kind of perfect, actually. He has the perfect house, the perfect job, and so on. I really like Pike because he’s such a nice guy and he’s pretty sweet as well. I like him better than Cole that's for sure.Something happened which left Cole and Jordan move into Cole’s father’s home and, well... you can just imagine how this goes. I was so excited when they moved in becausedraaaaaama. And there is definitelyplenty of drama and angst.The first time Pike and Jordan meet, I definitely feel their connection and from then on, I was already rooting for them! And the sexual tension between the two...?HOT DAMN. It was really great. I have no words to explain how sexy it was, to be honest, haha. And, like, Cole who?Speaking ofCole... Ok, so I’m going to rant here just a little bit because I have a lot of emotions when it comes to this guy and I need to get it out. So there are someSPOILERS AHEAD...---this bitch... i fucking hate him. For real though, he was such an asshole and super selfish. His excuses were that he was lazy and he felt that he was not worthy and some shit like that. AND I AGREE. I’m sorry I’m being a little mean but he deserves it. He does not deserve Jordan at all. And he definitely is not worthy of her. I don’t care that he kind of redeemed himself at the end. What he did to Jordan? Unforgivable. Imma just list out the things he did to her:- Forgot to pick her up on her birthday because he was too busy partying and cheating on her for the first time behind her back! and went to jail on the same night and got evicted from their apartment.- He was barely there when she needed him, always partying and cheating. always makes her do all the chores in the house because he has a hangover or is out partying.- When she doesn’t want to sleep with him or be intimate, he barely resists and blames her for all his shit and how he’s not good enough for her (because he clearly isn’t) and how she has her shit together (because obviously, she does as she’s not lazy and she’s also not a loser like him. Harsh, I know).- and when he promised he would pick her up from her work at, like, 2 in the morning, he doesn’t. Instead, he sent one of his friends to pick her up, and guess who picks her up? HER ABUSIVE EX-BOYFRIEND, who he is still friends with. Like tf? And that’s not the worst thing. He basically kind of forced her to sleep inside the bar because why in the world would she get inside the car with that asshole?- and he sleeps with this bitch, Elena, for God knows how long, on their bed and in their pool on the nights that she was working late. This is probably the reason why he can’t pick Jordan up anywhere because he’s too busy cheating behind her back.- he never fixed her car, which he promised to do...- he never made an effort to apologize to Jordan for all the shit he put her through!!! And he got mad because his father and her got together at the end? Like, I get it, it's weird as hell and I would be uncomfortable too but for real though? Does he even have the right? He screwed up so many times and instead of Pike and Jordan being sorry, he should be the one who is sorry. I honestly don't think he deserved their kindness, and when they forgave him so easily, I was just so frustrated because I wanted him to literally EXPLAIN himself and APOLOGIZE to them for being a shitty son and boyfriend. But did he do that?nooooooooo. Instead, he ran away, barely made an effort with both of them, NEVER said sorry to them, and made himself look like the victim. ugh. I literally feel no remorse for him.All he ever did was party, cheat behind Jordan's back, and spend all the money they were saving up on booze and partying. So, I’m glad she ended up with Pike.There was no Cole and Jordan at all. There never was. Like, what kind of friend/boyfriend remains friends with their girls’ ex who used to hurt them physically? A stupid guy, that’s who. I just wished someone kicked his ass or he grovelled more because I love drama lol. I don’t care about the reasons as to why he is how he is. They’re honestly not good enough and pretty pathetic.ANYWAYSI’m done with my rant about Cole. As you can see, I love the guy to pieces.If you loveforbidden romance,slow burn romance,FANTASTIC sexual tension, a hero who is quite older and is super mature and charming,STEAMY AS HELLsex scenes, andangst, then this is the perfect book!I recommend 100%, 10/10