2 starsLove triangle. Cheating. Marriage in trouble. Forbidden.*spoiler alert*warning*••• Matt- Sad backstory- Self-made rich- Ideal husbandbeforehis job became his priority- Not ready for kids yet• I understand and admire his drive to earn much money, just not at the expense of his marriage.• I don't get why he's so adamant to keep his wife when it's obvious that they no longer love each other and grew apart years ago. They aren't evenclose friendsfor the last 2 years. They're like strangers living under one roof with a long history together. 😐• Matt, there are plenty of fish in the sea. You deserve better than thatdamn bitchwoman.*spoiler alert*warning*••• Will (H)- Marriage counselor 🤨- His office is Matt-Charlotte's war zone.- He empathizes with Charlotte's unhappy life with her neglectful, insensitive, disinterested and jerk husband.• I like Will. He's the only reason I finished this book, and unto the next.• For months it was all professional. Then he reached that point where he just want to comfort Charlotte.They're attracted to each other but it took months for their attraction to turn into physical.• Unethical, immoral, wrong.. IKR but somehow I understand their emotional connection. Wrong timing but I believe they're meant for each other.• His patience for her is extraordinary. Their love would have not survive if not for his strength.*spoiler alert*warning*••• Charlotte (h)- 28 y/oBeautiful damsel in distress🙄- Sad backstory- Marketing grad. Housewife<-Matt's decision- She wants kids! Like, right now but hubby is not ready.- She wants out of an unhappy marriage but scared to lose its benefit of security.- With crying spells every chapter. 🙄LOL• I so want to like her being a woman and all, but holy hell, Charlotte stretched my patience to the limit!• Deflection expert.I lost count the times she refused or ignored Matt's cheating questions, and Will's advice to file for divorce.• Until this book, I've never wanted a Hero flirts or dates OW in heroine's face. Charlotte was fuming. LMAO• She's angry that Matt lied about her stepdad's (abuser) death 1 and a half year ago, which means that the safety and security their marriage provided her has been unnecessary.That's wrong for Matt sure.How about- keeporleave your marriage simply because you're unhappy and doesn't love the person anymore; andnotbecause of what ever benefits' attached to your marriage or husband,bitchCharlotte? Hello pot, meet kettle.• She wants a baby because she got plenty of time in her hands being a housewife with a busy husband.She started the talk of divorce a year ago.She always finds a way for hours of smexing with Will.Butshe neither have the time nor foresight to save some money. You'd think she prepared herself for a year. 🤭*****Too much smexy times. Halfway thru the book I skimmed those parts. If not for Will, I'd think they'rein lust, not in love.Safetyh/OM kiss a few times. Last slept together months before the therapy.Explicit scenes H/h only