** One of my Top 20 of 2023 Picks onwww.JeevesReads.com! **I knew it was a good sign when I cackled at the meet cute - and, sure enough, this banter-filled, playful and spicy romance kept me hooked the rest of the way through. I really didn't know what I was getting into with this one, but it took no time at all to get a feel for the vibes. I adored the chemistry between these two characters, which was apparent from the moment they met. It hit the ground running and didn't let up the whole way through, with a delicious, SPICY romance that truly delivered on the sexual tension. These two both know that there's a ticking clock on their time together, and that adds a layer of angst and heartache that pairs perfectly with the sweet, spicy vibes of the rest of the story. It had just enough holiday feels to be ideal for the season, though this book would be great any time of the year. I can't wait to read the next installment - this was a fantastic introduction to this new-to-me author. I loved it!The story follows Ophelia, a teacher from Colorado who made the decision to do something for herself and take three weeks off to spend the holidays in Florida with her best friend. While browsing a dating app at the airport, Ophelia matches with a sexy stranger... only to realize that the guy is there at the airport with her. The two quickly figure out all the ways they're wrong for each other, before discovering that they'll be spending the holidays together. Turns out, their friends are dating pretty seriously, and the two will be spending a lot of time in each other's company. As Ophelia and Frankie get to know each other better, they realize that they have a stronger connection than either anticipated. With Ophelia leaving in a few weeks and Frankie just starting to dip his toes in the dating pool again, there's no way they'll ever be anything more than a fling. But keeping feelings out of the equation is easier said than done.After a string of disappointing books, I was absolutely DELIGHTED to dive into this light and sexy romance. It caught my attention right away, and the obvious chemistry between Ophelia and Frankie kept me completely engaged. They're total opposites in so many ways, but I loved how they brought out the best in each other. Ophelia awakens something inside Frankie that's been quiet for years, and it was great to see what an exceptional man he really was. There's tons of banter and sexual tension, as well as a surprising level of heat. Not only is the story pretty sex positive, but it had SO many spicy moments sprinkled throughout. I'd like to call this a hot slow burn, but Ophelia and Frankie's connection was obvious right away. They did their best to fight the feelings and keep things firmly in the no strings zone, but that clearly wasn't gonna happen. I really enjoyed both characters as well as the supporting cast, so I would definitely read more from the series. It was such a fun and sexy time, with just enough holiday vibes to warm up the season.