5 “A to Z” Stars!!When I first picked this series up, it was just another book to read. But after that first book, I knew it meant so much more. Rylee and Colton have found a special place in my heart and K. Bromberg gave them the most epically fantastic, healing, loving, perfect ending that exceeded all my expectations.RyleeColtonAny doubts I had about Rylee and Colton (and there weren’t many) were completely assuaged inCrashedand even though they still had their fair share of up and downs, they found their happy ending. If you’ve read the first two books in this series, then you have to read this one. And if you haven’t picked this series up yet, what are you waiting for?? This series has gotten better and better with every book, culminating in this wonderful ending to Colton and Rylee’s story.“This is love. Me and him, making it work. One being strong when the other is weak. Thinking of the other first when they know their partner is going to feel pain.”I’m not going to talk about the plot because everything means more if you don’t know about it ahead of time. So I’ll start with the best and my personal favorite part of this book. Mr. Colton Donovan!! Omg this man has completely stolen my heart. From the first moment, even when he was a cocky asshole, I couldn’t help but fall for him. The emotional journey he goes on in this one is truly inspiring and I can’t even imagine surviving what he went through.“I try to cover my ears like a fucking little kid because it’s too much. All of it—the words, the fear, the fucking hope that I just might in fact be a little bent and not completely broken—is just too much.”His story completely broke my heart, shattered it into a million pieces. Colton had to dig deep in this one and finally face the past he’s been running from for so long. And the prologue was both heartbreaking and chilling at the same time. Underneath his tough exterior, is this broken man who doesn’t know how to be loved. But he’s still extremely sweet, protective, caring, and just all around the best guy. I loved seeing him with Rylee and the boys at the house. He has a huge heart even if he might not realize it. For so long, he thought if anyone found out his past, they would reject him and it was beautiful to see him open himself up to others and find acceptance and love for the first time.“I want to be your motherfucking checkered flag, Rylee. Your pace car to lead you through tough times, your pit stop when you need a break, your start line, your finish line, your goddam victory lane.”Okay, I think that’s enough Colton ranting for now...Onto Rylee. She’s one of my favorite females because she’s strong, deeply protective, caring, loving and stood by Colton through everything. Rylee has her own heartbreaking past and I don’t even know how she not only picked herself back up but learned to thrive in her environment. She’s extremely nurturing with the boys and Colton but I loved that she was also willing to give Colton his space when he needed it.Rylee is also so understanding of everyone. Even when Colton would try to push her away or lash out at her, she saw deep down into his soul how much he was really hurting. She didn’t run or avoid but gave Colton enough room to breathe and come to terms with whatever they were facing. She showed Colton unwavering unconditional love and that he wasn’t alone in his pain. Rylee was there for him no matter what.“I want him to know that his pain is my pain. His shame is my shame. His adversity is my adversity. His struggle is my struggle. That he no longer has to battle it along, body and soul stained in silent shame.”They both faced some really tough times in this book but it just made them that much stronger. Colton and Rylee have had that spark between them from the very beginning but they have not had an easy road whatsoever. All they’ve had to go through, all the fights and breakups, and misunderstandings were all worth it in the end. And I think all their experiences showed each of them just how strong they could be.“Because we need to crack. We need to break. Only then can we pick up each other’s pieces and make each other whole again.”I loved that throughout this series, there have been so many little things that signify so much between Colton and Rylee.Ace, a motherfucking checkered flag, sheets, the alphabet, racing, non-negotiables, 4 super heroes, song texts, a storage closet.Every moment between them was something to cherish and have helped to shape them into who they are now. They’ve grown together, learned how to be together, and while their love isn’t perfect, it’s real.“I’m not expecting anything anymore because if being with Colton has taught me anything, it’s that our love isn’t patient, nor is it kind, it’s just uniquely ours.”The sex scenes were h-o-t hot but its so much more than just sex between Colton and Rylee now. There weren’t as many smexy times as in the previous books but I was totally okay with that because this story was about so much more.Oh and breakout star of this book is definitely Becks. We saw a little of him in Fueled but oh my gosh, I completely fell for him in this one. I love the friendship he has with Colton even when all they do is egg each other on. Becks wasn’t afraid to give Colton the hard truths and make Colton face his fears. And he was always there for Rylee too. Supporting her, reminding her how much she meant to Colton when she may have had doubts. I hope he gets his own story one day! Here is just one of the many hilarious moments between Becks and Colton:“You—Colton Donovan—stepped foot into a grocery store?”“Yep.”“And it wasn’t just to buy condoms?”I can’t help it now. I love fucking with him. It’s just too goddamn easy.“Nah, no longer a requirement when you hold a frequent flier card to the barebacking club.”I don’t think it hit me until the end that this was really the end of Colton and Rylee’s story, and when it did, it hit me hard. I’ve been right there in this story with them, felt every emotion that passed between them, experienced all the highs and lows, which makes saying goodbye that much harder. K has so much talent in her writing and storytelling and she truly brought everything to a close in this book. Nothing felt rushed or forced and I loved every second of it. She’s also so unconventional, whenever I thought I knew where the story was going, there’d be a twist that completely changed the direction of it.The ending seriously put this hugest grin on my face. At the gym reading the last 100 pages or so, just on the elliptical grinning like a weirdo. Then lying in bed reading the double epilogue, yup DOUBLE EPILOGUE, I had a smile on my face. The ending was absolute perfection and everything I could have wished for for Colton and Rylee. It made saying bye to them that much harder but lessened the blow at the same time. Some of the lines were so beautiful, they made my heart ache with joy. To see how far, Rylee and Colton have both come on their journey warmed my soul and showed me again exactly why this series is one of my favorites.“You were the one thing I never wanted—never, ever expected in my life—an fuck if I can live without you now. You test me and tempt me and make me look at the truth I don’t want to face and are stubborn as hell, but God, baby, I wouldn’t want you any other way. Wouldn’t want us any other way.”I think I have the most quotes from any book I’ve ever read and I wish I could share all of them. But really, just read this book! It was amazing and perfect and I wish I would read it for the first time again. I’ve been waiting for this book since I finished the second one and I was not disappointed! Colton and Rylee are one of my favorite book couples and I will not be able to let them go for a long time.“I want to be your first, your last, and every fucking thing in between.”UPDATE 1.29.2014OMG there's a cover!!! And I love it :DWhen life crashes down around us, how hard are we willing to fight for the one thing we can’t live without, each other?Life is full of moments.Big moments.Little moments.And none of them are inconsequential.Every single moment prepares you for that one instance that defines your life. You must overcome all your fears, confront the demons that chase you, and cleanse the poison that clings to your soul or you risk the chance of losing everything.Mine started the minute Rylee fell out of that damn storage closet. She made me feel. Made me whole when all I thought I could ever be was incomplete. Became the lifeline I never knew I needed. Hell yes, she’s worth the fight…but how do you fight for someone you know you don’t deserve?Love is full of ups and downs.Heart stopping highs.Soul shattering lows.And none of them are insignificant.Love is a racecourse of unexpected twists and turns that must be negotiated. You have to break down walls, learn to trust, and heal from your past in order to win. But sometimes it’s the expected that’s the hardest to hold on to.Colton has healed and completed me, stolen my heart, and made me realize our love’s not predictable nor perfect—it’s bent. And bent’s okay. But when outside factors put our relationship to the test, what lengths will I have to go to prove to him that he’s worth the fight?Whoever said love is patient and love is kind, never met the two of us. We know our love is worth it—have acknowledged that we were meant to be—but when our pasts crash into our future, will the repercussions make us stronger or break us apart?Just finished the second book with that devastating cliffhanger. Need this booknow!