Astrid Clifford is Royal Elite School's smallest fly. When accompanying her friend Dan to a lavish party at Royal Elite, Astrid finds herself in the King's restricted area. This leads to a whirlwind encounter with Levi King, the school's football captain. Astrid is now the next person to be hunted by Levi and left to die. Levi King is no fairy tale king. He has three rules: bow, break, and bend the knee. Levi thinks he can break Astrid, but the new princess will bring the king to his knees. Can Astrid fight Levi or will she be the one left chanting 'long live the king'?The main plot of this book is simply amazing but what I adore the most is the little side plots. For example, when it came to understanding Astrid's dad Henry. There were a lot of love-hate moments with him but once it got towards the end of the book I knew I loved him. I hope there is a book for Henry and Jasmine because I know it would break my heart.A sigh comes from my left. It's not annoyance, but more like resignation or something similar. He makes the same sound every time he comes to adjust my blanket at night. It's the only habit Dad has kept doing since I came to this house. Every night, he readjusts my blanket as if I'm a child and murmurs, "Night, Star." I've always pretended to be asleep, or maybe he only comes when he thinks I'm asleep. He's been doing that religiously, even during the nights when he's caught up late with work."Remember, Astrid. You're a Clifford and no one brings us down." I try to smile at him, but at the reminder of how I ran from school today, it comes out as a grimace."No one hurts my daughter and gets away with it. Tell me who do I have to destroy.""No one, Dad.""Are you sure?" I nod.He takes my hand in his and clasps something around my wrist. "Happy Birthday, Star." Before I can say anything, he goes back to his car and disappears down the road. I took it down to find a dainty bracelet around my wrist. There's a sun, a moon, and a star, like a tattoo.I swallow. "Is there something you want to talk about, Dad?" I winced. "Sorry, I mean Father.""Dad is fine." His eyes soften. "I'm sorry I made you call me something you didn't relate to, Astrid.""O-okay." I don't know why I feel more nervous. Dad is allowing me to call him Dad."Jasmine and I decided to reunite officially right before her accident." A sheen of sadness covers his gaze. "It remained as a dream, after all."A sun. A moon. A star. The sun on Dad's arm is black. "Like mine." I show him my tattoo at the same place as his. However, in mine, the star is coloured black. And in Mum's tattoo, the moon is in black. I chuckle. "She got us matching tattoos.""You took a life from me and I promise that I'll take yours in return," he speaks with pure contempt that causes my skin to crawl. "I'll make sure you rot in prison until the day you die."The tension between Levi and Astrid was everything, there was not a dull moment."Shouldn't you be leaving?" I jerk my chin at him."Shouldn't you be more hospitable?" he shoots back with a slight tilt of his lips."I hate you, Levi. The mere sight of you makes me want to throw up. You already proved your point, and I'm done playing, so leave me the hell alone." I'm panting after my outburst, but I keep my chin held high."You're done, huh?""Yeah. It's not worth it anymore.""Here's the thing, Princess. You might be done -" his lips inch impossibly close to my ear until hot breaths tickle along my skin "-but I'm not."Watching Levi protect Astrid after he started off wanting to shut her up and destroy her was so entertaining. It has you kicking your feet and giggling.On that evening months ago when Astrid looked at me with teary, wrenched eyes, searching for a soul I don't have, I didn't sleep. And in that sleepless night, I came up with a different tactic. If the problem is her memory, I'll take care of that instead of taking care of her."We should threaten to rape her," Chris mutters. "Then maybe the bitch will understand to back off this time."One moment, Chris is talking, the next, I'm throwing him against the lockers with my arm against his fucking throat. He wheezes, face reddening as he struggles. I tighten my arm, cutting off his air supply."You won't get near her, touch her, or even fucking look at her." I snarl against his face as his eyes bulge. "When I say to drop it, you. Fucking. Drop. It."I'm closing the zipper of my backpack when his hand snags around my wrist. His voice turns threatening as he speaks, "I said you'll like it. Don't pretend like you're hard to get. Everyone knows you're a little slut.""That's enough!" I push at him and attempt to yank my wrist from his hold. "Let me go."He doesn't. If anything, his grip tightens until my wrist hurts. One moment, I'm trying to free myself from Jerry's hold, the next, a large body slams into Jerry's bulk and pushes him straight to the concrete. I stare in stunned silence as Levi smashes Jerry to the ground. Although the rugby player is bigger, Levi doesn't show any signs of backing off.Watching Astor's stand up for herself was amazing. This girl ain't no damsel in distress when it comes to some random guy or up against her new family."Isn't your father Judge Huntington?" I ask Jerry in my coolest voice."Good, you know about that." Jerry continues smirking and I gloat at the fact that I'm going to wipe it off. Once and for all."I suggest you go home and ask your daddy about the money he embezzled from the Crown Court. Because guess who has evidence? That would be my own daddy. Now, if I go home and tell him Judge Huntington's loser son harassed me, who do you think will pay?"Levi was so obsessed with Astird which made me so obsessed with him."I don't like it." Levi's voice stops me in my tracks. I slowly turn around to face him."You don't like what?""When others touch you.""Why did you have to make me visible?""I made you visible, huh?""You did! You screwed up everything.""You were never supposed to be invisible, Princess," he whispers the words in that rough voice of his."Do you consider me a joke?""A joke," he repeats slowly, keeping his merciless hold on my wrists,"Or am I a conquest? A war you need to win.""A war is fucking child's play compared to you, Princess.""Don't come cheering for others at my game," he growls the words against my throat."W-what?""Don't stand there calling another guy's name in my fucking presence."I smile, incredulous. "Are you obsessed with me or something?""Call it an obsession or foolishness or fucking madness," he grunts, squeezing my throat. "But you keep your eyes on me.""Do you believe in fate?" he asks.I'm taken aback by his super out-of-character question. "Not really.""Me neither, but I'm starting to."My pulse quickens at the irresistible drop in his tone. "Why is that?"He fists my hair in his grip so my head is angled up. "I would've found you no matter what, Princess. It was a matter of when, not if.""Your tears. Your laughs. Your pain. Your joy. Everything you have to offer is mine to own."Hell, when I don't sleep, I spend the entire night looking at the sketch I stole from her house and imagining her concentrated expression.The amount of times that this book me laugh because of the sarcasm. It was unreal.Levi: You can't run away from me, Princess. I'll catch you every time.He sent another text yesterday morning. Six a.m. on a Sunday. Does he even sleep?Levi: Let's go for a jog and train those legs to run better.l ignored both texts."Are you blind?" He's still in that cool phase of his. "Can't you see the way he looks at you?""Like a sister, you mean."He bursts out laughing, but it's completely humourless, "If he looks at you like a sister, then I look at you like you're a fucking nun."One of my all-time favourite moments between Levi and Astrid. I did not expect to love them as much as I did considering everyone raves for some of the other men in this series."Does anyone else have something to say?" He grabs my wrist, and before I can protest, he pulls me to his side with his hand wrapped tightly around my waist. He places a long, possessive kiss on my forehead, then on my cheek and on my mouth."Astrid is under my protection. Mess with her and you'll have a personal problem with me. I'll bury you so fucking deep, you'll pray for death instead."