I’m not going to lie this book took me out of my usual comfort zone. I have these set rules in my head, I don’t read cheating, it has to have a happy ending, and if the book is paranormal romance, alien romance (anything with one character that is other/not human) the hero is the character that isn’t human the heroine has to be human. My theory in this is that I’m human (I know Ive just shocked some of you but it’s true) But with Anne Malcolm writing it I’m reading it. Now don’t’ get me wrong I’m not reading a romance that doesn’t have a hea or one with cheating (that’s just me) but after this book I may just have to branch out a little because Anne Malcom literally blew me away with this book I could not get enough.The characters she created in this story were so real (no two dimensional dull characters here). I was literally hooked on page one. The heroine Isla is one of my very favorite characters I have read. She is unapologetically who she is and I loved her. I loved her quirks her rough edges and everything about her. She was funny and ruthless and still ok with who she was while guarding her soft and that made her even more real and true to who she was. The hero was amazing (but can you really expect anything else from Ms. Malcom) He was everything I want and look for in a hero strong, possessive, determined, not scared to fight for what he wanted, and perfect for Ilsa.I love that these characters (some not all) are gray they are good but not perfect and while some bad may creep into them they are who they are and that made them all the more real to me and what drew me to them and ultimately love them. I also love that this story isn’t so cut and dry. This books heroes/heroine/bad guys(?) weren’t what you would expect and that’s just another reason I loved them and this book. This book is one that will stick with me for a long time because it was different. Was there love yes, struggle and problems of course but Anne Malcome took a different angle with this book and it made this one, one of my favorites of this year and to be honest a favorite in a long time.Some characters in this book really make you think, are they bad and the answer (I think) is that they aren’t perfect and maybe a little of both but what I will say is this book is not black and white. I loved that we see all the different facets of these characters it make me more invested in this book and more hooked while I was reading it and even now that I have finished it. The story in this book was amazing. I’ve needed books with great story’s lately, yes I still want my romance which is why I read romance but I need and actual story and to be honest a lot of books I have found lately don’t have that and I find myself putting a lot of books down because they don’t have a lot more than sex (which if that’s what your looking for cool but for me I’m needing more).The romance in this book was beautiful I loved Ilsa and the hero together. In fact I don’t think I could love them more. The side characters, and there are so many characters that I am now curious about that I am waiting for their story’s where just as interesting as the main characters and not just filler. I will say that I don’t remember wanting a book two in a series as much as I want this one in a very long time. This book was so refreshing because of its differences. And I keep thinking how will it all end, what will happen with the hero and heroine and with the side characters (one in particular). It’s nice to be so excited about a new series. Even though I love books and reading after so long and so many books I don’t always get as excited as I am with this one.I don’t’ (for the most part) like books with more that one book about one character(s) because I think most of the time the story really doesn’t need a whole other book for their story to be complete but that isn’t the case with this one, I can’t wait for the rest of their story to see how it ends but to see everyone else in the story that we are introduced to. I also am not a huge fan of cliff hangers and for me while some consider it a cliffhanger I was ok with how it ended, and that’s coming from someone who has books right now on her kindle waiting to be read after the next/last book of the series comes out.This book is chocked full of romance, a great story, funny moments and amazing world that is created to be is so rich and real. I love that Anne Malcom switched it up from her usual type of book because it didn’t just worked it amazed me and made me hooked on this new series and excited to see what she creates next. I can't recommend this book enough! This book is like nothing she has ever written and it will blow you away!*Beta/ARC read provided by Anne Malcom