Trigger Warnings:Cheating, amnesia, anxiety, racism, infertility, panic attack, car accident, death of parent, depression, miscarriageThis was a buddy read with lovelyTEESHA, I had a feeling I wouldn’t like this and I didn’t. The characters are so fucking selfish, the poor FMC, Liv, was cheated on and everyone was gaslighting her into believing that she was in the wrong for not staying and fighting for the relationship. It makes me bloody furious, I was so angry while reading this. The MMC, Ben, didn’t remember what he did so it wasn’t that angsty IMO, I was just frustrated and annoyed. In order for me to feel for the characters, I have to believe that the characters had a strong, emotional relationship. But their relationship was mainly sexual, and the emotional stuff is more tell than show which I hated. So I didn’t want the characters to get back together and I was angry with almost all of the side characters. This doesn’t have grovel IMO cuz the guy doesn’t even remember his fuckup, he believes he is in love with the FMC and would never do her dirty. The FMC is constantly horny and is kinda a doormat even if she stands up for herself sometimes.Liv has been separated from her husband for months. What started off as a loving marriage, ended with the biggest betrayal. While Liv is tryna move on, she gets a call from the hospital finding out that her ex got into a car accident. When she gets there, she’s surprised to see her ex-husband currently believes they are still happily married, the past two years are erased from his memories, the two years where things went wrong.Now for spoilersLiterally, the second we start, Ben’s friend, Wren, tells Liv to get back with Ben. Ben cheated on Liv and is STILL sleeping with the OW but apparently, he only wants Liv, fuck that bruh. Ben got into an accident and forgot all about the cheating and Liv is expected to forgive him cuz it’s complicated. It made me so fucking angry to see Wren bud in and make it seem like Liv was the bad guy. Ben’s mom blames Liv for making Ben unhappy since she can’t have kids, what the actual fuck? I’m livid bro, FUCKING LIVID. Liv is calm and collected and stands up for herself but she should not be treated like shit. She goes in to see him and thinks he deserves to be happy and alive even if they aren’t together. Liv even went to therapy which is heartbreaking since this affected her so much.When Ben finally wakes up, he acts like they weren’t separated, asking for a kiss and getting offended. He thinks they’re in 2017 when they’re in 2019 so he doesn’t remember cheating on Liv. Liv has a panic attack and freaks out, but she finally tells him he’s missing two years of memory and he’s so sure Liv left him and not the other way around. So she tells him he cheated and he doesn’t believe her.Ben immediately says to tell the OW it's over since he can’t believe he cheated on Liv. He’s so pissed when he finds out Liv kinda has a boyfriend, he kinda asks Liv to stay and she does and he tells her to tell her boyfriend to leave since he’s gonna trigger him, the audacity.Ben still had a necklace with his ring on it and pictures of them together. Ben continues to feel frustrated but also talks about moments from the past but it’s killing Liv. She offers to come in or stay until he was asleep and it annoyed me cuz she didn’t owe him anything.On the bright side, Liv’s friend Alyssa was saying all the things I was thinking. There’s no point in Liv staying, I get that she’s concerned but why the hell is she staying when they are gonna get a divorce. I get that they were married for a while and stuff but I’m bitter okay. Alyssa even said why would Liv wanna be with someone who cheated. And it’s interesting because her husband, Wren, is the one blaming Liv for everything like an idiot. I hate him. But Liv feels their connection coming back and so she’s staying.So the OW Ben cheated with shows up and Ben acts like the cheating was her fault when he was the one who was married and cheated. He treated the OW like shit and the OW said they planned on getting married and he said he loved her. Ben breaks it off with the OW and when Liv calls him out, saying he’s using his anger on her. So fucking Wren decides that Liv has to live with Ben for him to get better which is fucking ridiculous. Liv was cheated on and Wren really thinks he’s entitled to disrupt Liv’s life when she was the fucking victim. Wren says Ben can’t stay with them since he’s trying for a baby with Alyssa, Liv’s bestie, and Alyssa also hates Ben. When Liv says she has a boyfriend, Wren is like, you’re using the guy to get over Ben.“You threw him out! And don’t start that shit with me. You know he’s still crazy about you. He’s apologized a million times. He’d die for you to give him another chance. How long are you going to punish you both for?” He pauses and narrows his gaze before placing his hands on his hips. “You know you still love him.” His voice lowers to a whisper.”The fucking audacity, fuck you Wren. Just because he says sorry doesn’t change the fact that his dick was in someone else. I wonder what he would think if Alyssa cheated. Think about how you would feel if you were in Liv’s shoes you dick.So Liv comes to pick up Ben and she’s already horny as hell which was so disappointing. What gets me so mad is that Wren keeps dismissing what Ben did, making it seem like Liv was the bad guy. We find out Liv had multiple miscarriages and was depressed and he’s like well your husband needed you. WHAT THE FUCK BRO?! SHE NEEDED HIM. But instead, he stuck his dick into someone else. Rather than working through obstacles together, he left and cheated. How the fuck is this dismissed? How the hell does he think it’s ok to say this shit? If his wife cheated on him because she was sad they couldn’t get pregnant or something, is it ok? No. So why’s it ok for Ben to do it to Liv?! It felt like he had no sympathy for Liv and said she should’ve gotten help if she had depression. HOMEBOY, IT’S STILL NOT AN EXCUSE FOR BEN TO CHEAT OH MY GOD. Fuck Wren and fuck Ben.“I’m not arguing with you about this. You can’t compare how I decided to handle my miscarriages—yes plural—to him seeking solace in another woman’s vagina!” I try to keep my voice even, but I can hear the hysteria forcing my voice a few octaves higher. My heart hammers against my ribcage as I feel my body reacting to my words. Deep breaths, Olivia.“No, but he needed you and you wouldn’t even look at him.” He crosses his arms across his chest, the bottom half of his tattoo sleeve peeking out from his scrubs.”She didn’t look at him so he fucked someone else, makes sense. Fuck you Wren.So Ben comes over and he’s surprised at how different their place is. He hopes to just stay without remembering shit, Liv keeps getting random sex flashbacks and is always horny which made it hard for me to like her.So Ben starts getting in Liv’s face tryna figure out what went wrong. But then David shows up, and what pissed me off was that I get that y’all aren’t in an official relationship. But this was the guy that held her while she cried and comforted her when Ben cheated on her. And she couldn’t even let him know what was going on. He had to come over to find out and Liv wasn’t even explaining herself well, she was giving vague responses. And I hated how Ben acted all high and mighty, I get that he forgot he cheated but he’s acting like a saint when this whole situation was his fault. He’s pissed she’s with another guy. I admit, David was a bit harsh but I don’t blame him, and I found it lowkey funny how David called Ben out for cheating even though it wasn’t satisfying since he doesn’t remember. And I cringed when David left and Ben starts holding her like ick, don’t touch her bruh.So Ben made breakfast and they’re eating together and Liv thinks about another time they had sex and it’s just annoying bro. So far, it felt like they never had an emotional connection, it only focused on sex. You’re telling me they have all these years of marriage and the only thing she remembers the most was the sex? That’s kinda sad. He realized she spaced out and she was so horny she needs to get off and runs. Bro this is nonsense I hate it.Liv finally tells Ben about their relationship, so they were tryna get pregnant. She had two miscarriages and after the second one, she needed surgery. She felt so depressed and then she finds out that Ben cheated on her. He is so shocked he did this especially when she was in need of him. And she blamed herself for not talking to him cuz stupid fucking Wren said this often. But it isn’t her fault bro I don’t give a shit, she went through so much and her husband wasn’t there for her. The thing is I can’t believe they were so in love cuz you don’t see it. Yes, they had an active sex life but for the emotional aspects, it’s more tell than show.Ben didn’t eat or sleep properly that day. David sent a gift apologizing and Ben insults him. Wren and Alyssa show up and have a buddy's night so Wren is out with Ben and Alyssa with Liv. Wren does apologize but I don’t care, he still says Ben was broken and how Liv got through it and is stronger than ever so to protect Ben or some shit. Liv continues to think about fucking Ben and it’s so annoying.Liv was drunk and Ben took her to bed and didn’t take advantage of her even though Liv was horny as per usual. Ben got Liv’s handwriting and initials tattooed on his body. What’s cringey is he’s been sleeping with the OW during the separation and the OW must’ve seen this tattoo so many times. They go on a date and while they’re there, David finds Liv. He’s upset and annoyed she might be back with Ben and Liv doesn’t tell him shit since she believes she doesn’t owe him anything. Which I think is pretty dirty since he helped her through a lot, even if he screwed up. She’s treating him like he cheated on her and Ben is pissed and said he’s tryna win Liv back.There’s a flashback and you see Ben begging for Liv to open up but she told him to find someone else to make him happy and he said he never would but we know he cheated so I hurt for Liv. She was dealing with shit, I don’t blame her for how she acted. Liv and Ben are kinda back together which I hated, Ben begs her to stay rather than move back into his apartment.Liv is scared Ben will cheat again if she pulls away and he swears he won’t and doesn’t even know why he did it. But just because he doesn’t remember doesn’t mean he didn’t do it. It’s complicated cuz he seems like a different person, the person she loved. Ben is begging for another chance but Liv doesn’t know if she can. She didn’t take care of herself and took Xanax and sleeping pills while her friend helped her. David shows up at Liv’s office and at this point, I was like bro just stop. I get that he’s mad but Liv is clearly done with him and I don’t agree with what she did but he needs to take a hint. He finally leaves after being angry and I do like how he called her out for being heartless when her heart was brokenBen’s racist mom is back and I don’t know where she expects Liv to put her shoes cuz she insulted her for putting them near the door. Ben says he talked to her but I doubt it worked. Liv told Ben about David and he’s pissed but Liv talks him outta being mad. They decide to go to his apartment. When they go, they find Liv’s panties, pictures of Liv everywhere, and a will which he addressed to Liv. I cried so much when I read the letter, I was glad the OW’s stuff wasn’t there and it was clear his life was empty because everything in his home seemed empty and bare.We see the flashback where Ben admits to cheating and it was devastating. Liv was ready to speak and fight for their relationship by going to therapy but Ben cheated on her. I am relieved he was honest with Liv and told her and didn’t have sex with her until she knew but it hurt to see how much it broke Liv. Liv made certain that it should never happen again and he put the rings on her and they’re back together.What shook me is that Ben wakes up and REMEMBERS EVERYTHING. We see flashbacks of Liv wanting to get pregnant, struggling with infertility, shutting Ben out and Ben being desperate because his wife is shutting down. He was drunk outta his mind and woke up and was so confused. He yelled at the OW for taking advantage of him and apparently he was crying and even screamed Liv’s name when he came. But what I didn’t understand was why he continued the relationship with this woman. The OW was also drunk and Ben didn’t find a message from Liv either which had him disappointed since she didn’t care he was gone. Wren had to help him get outta bed since he was depressed. When he sees Liv, he doesn’t wanna tell her he remembers.Ben doesn’t tell Liv and continues to fuck her and his OW shows up. He tells Liv to answer the door and the OW tells Liv that Ben will cheat again. Liv goes off and tells her that he was probably super drunk. The OW leaves and Ben and Liv fuck, they literally do nothing else. She talks about protection and how she’s not on anything and he isn’t using anything and was thinking of having kids. But he doesn’t think it’s a good idea yet since it started the problems and said they should go to therapy which is good.It’s been a week and Ben still hasn’t told Liv he remembers everything. I loved how Alyssa stood up for Liv and yelled at Ben cuz he deserved it. Wren realized that Ben got his memory back and asked if Ben was ever gonna tell Liv and you just know he doesn’t wanna. This makes him a shittier person cuz he’s just using the situation to his advantage. The OW shows up and she’s yelling at Ben, saying he loves her and acting all pathetic. Liv is bitter and Ben loses it and calls her out on using his memory loss to her advantage. He says they only slept together three times and that he never said he loved her and he was always crying or talking about Liv. The OW is pissed and then Ben says he never let her spend the night. And I’m side eying him in the corner. The OW throws her drink at Ben and leaves.Liv realizes that Ben knew the exact number of times he had sex with the OW and how she didn’t argue. When she confronts Ben, he apologizes but Liv is so fucking angry as she should be. He manipulated and lied to her and was probably never gonna tell her. He says he wanted to be solid before telling her but Liv is so angry she can’t trust him. He’s on the phone and Wren told him he fucked up and needs to grovel. Liv comes in the middle and says all the right things. How she can’t trust him, how she needed him and he cheated. One thing I forgot to mention was it pissed me off how Ben kept bringing up that she fucked someone else when she wasn’t cheating. He fucking cheated but she separated from him and then found someone else. And he tries to touch her and says that she probably imagined him fucking her but I was glad Liv slapped him cuz what the fuck. Ben feels bad for cheating but he said he was tired of pushing through the marriage while she shut him out when he needed her. And again Liv says that it isn’t a good excuse to go and fuck someone else and he knows but he’s annoyed. After this conversation I just didn’t want them together, their relationship is just about sex and they both can’t trust each other properly anymore I don’t know.Liv asks for space since she can’t get past the cheating or lying and Ben leaves. Ben begs her to come back to him which I think is ridiculous after all the arguing. Liv goes back to being depressed and drinking and Ben’s mom shows up. Liv is so straight up and sarcastic with her and Ben’s mom admits she didn’t like Liv since she was taking her son away. She said her husband also cheated on her and said she should give Ben another chance. Again what annoyed me was everyone kept comparing David to Ben’s OW. Ben CHEATED with the OW, David was a casual boyfriend to Liv even if he didn’t get the label.It’s been two weeks and Ben is waiting on Liv. He believes Liv had 6 months already and still hadn’t made up her mind which isn’t fair because he was sleeping with OW during that separation and didn’t fight for her so she thought it was over. Ben is still waiting on her and his mom says to fight for her. Anyway, he goes to the hospital and Liv is there. Liv decides to forgive him and they make up. Two years later, they have a baby boy and yay happily ever after. Fuck that I’m just gonna be bitter in the corner.That is all, stay safe folks!