If I could get a refund I would. This has got to be the dumbest mix mash up of books I've ever read.Husband Abe Lincoln (rolling eyes) and wife Addy. Linc is in an MC and owns his own garage, wife is a party planner and owns an event company. Together 8 years, married for 5.Abby makes a lot more money than Linc does. He starts to get resentful. He hears a club whore who keeps hitting on him, Stephanie, talking shit about his wife saying she must be a prostitute because she's always meeting guys at the fancy hotel in town.This gets into Linc's head. He follows his wife and sees her meeting a few men outside the hotel in the same week. He gets drunk at a party and later when his wife shows up she sees him getting a blowjob from the same club whore Stephanie. He's passed out. Miraculously, he wakes up the instant his wife snatches her nappy head off his dick.He accuses her of being a whore and while he's saying Stephanie assaulted him (she did) he also says maybe he liked it because she's too tired to have sex with him because she's whoring all day. And that even though she works for rich people she can't possibly make the money she does with her little business.Addy leaves him. Files for divorce. Linc fights the divorce all while still thinking his wife is a high class hooker. Addy sees another incident at Linc's garage where Stephanie leaps into Linc's arms (and he lets her) and assumes he's still cheating. Linc tells people to ban Stephanie from anywhere he is but it still looks bad.Addy is at work when she faints and smacks her head on the conference table. Turns out she's having a miscarriage at 4 months and didn't know she was pregnant. She loses the baby all alone in the hospital. Linc forces them to go to counseling before divorce. She also has to keep her gay business partner Brian with her at all times so the lawyer can't accuse her of sleeping with clients.Addy still thinks Linc cheated because HE DOESN'T tell her he didn't or that he's not cheating. He doesn't answer his phone for THREE WEEKS when Addy calls then tells her if she's not cooperative with counseling he'll tell his lawyer. She unloads on him. He lets her leave.Another 3 weeks go by. Seriously the time jumping is obnoxious. For someone who supposedly did nothing wrong and loves his wife, he's just letting months go by.Then apparently they both have stalkers, specifically Lincoln. A man and a woman couple go around having affairs with married couples then turn around and blackmail them. The stalker woman has become obsessed with Lincoln and has cloned his phone so when Addy calls, it goes straight to the woman's phone instead. The stalkers think if the woman marries Lincoln, she'll take Addy's business from her and the man stalker will get Lincolns. And now Addy has to help catch the stalkers along with the police.Rolled my eyes so freaking hard.Linc goes home with his MC pals that I can't keep up with because they all have three names or nicknames and it's NOT done well. Super messy. Linc collapses and is rushed to the hospital. On hidden surveillance systems they see Stephanie and a man breaking into the house and letting at least 8 cats out in their house. Lincoln is deathly allergic to cats. So now, she's attempted murder. While Lincoln's in the hospital he gets worse because the doctors gave him clindamycin which he's allergy too. (Uhhhh he got an antibiotic for anaphylactic shock? Mmmmmk!) Addy goes to see him in the hospital and his parents kick her out.Months go by. Then they meet again when finally Addy is asked to plan something for the MC.See the theme of this book? They don't talk. They don't communicate. Weeks or months go by then something crazy and wackadoodle happens. Then mundane shit happens that adds nothing to the book or saving their marriage.Addy also blames Lincoln for cheating still. She knows he was assaulted against his will but blames him for purposely getting drunk and putting himself in that situation.Months goes by. They fuck at the club party Addy set up for them and she runs away.Weeks go by. Addy now has breast cancer. Linc goes with her to the doctor and doesn't even know where she's living but yells at everyone who asks that she's still his wife.C'MON. Is this a Korean soap opera? This book is a hot mess of plot holes, missing conversations, situations that stop and start unexpectedly. Time jumps. Terrible dialogue.