Trigger Warnings:Cheating (physical and emotional on page), revenge cheating (they’re still married but FMC agreed to divorce MMC, he sees her with OM), MMC has anger issues and manhandles the FMC, parent slaps MMC, body comments, fivesomeWe're both slick, dripping with sweat, after hours of fucking, but I want to bring her there one more time. Just one more time before I have to go back to my wife and kidsI readPrince Cheating Charmingand really enjoyed it. I HATE cheating but was curious about this and was pleasantly surprised. I would never take a cheater back irl but in fiction, I’m always curious to see if the MMC would win me over. The MMC Maverick was unbearable, I hated him, he was pathetic. But what made me love the story was our FMC Tallulah, she was hilarious and made Maverick PAY. Her revenge was the highlight of this book. This book felt like it was a parody, I just couldn’t take any of the characters seriously. But it was so addicting, funny, the revenge and suffering of Maverick was so satisfying, but there were some things I would take out. Maverick and Tallulah had 3 kids and they barely play a role in this. Realistically these kids were put in a pretty toxic household and their parents acted like immature teenagers. But since it’s fiction, I moved on. The other thing was something that happened near the end. I found it really unnecessary, I loved the revenge Tallulah did but near the end it was over the top and too much. Maverick’s grovel was rushed and wasn’t satisfying but I still enjoyed the story.Maverick has an ongoing affair with Amanda for 6 months. He is sick of being married to his wife Tallulah and decides he wants a divorce. He expects her to cry but instead, Tallulah shrugs it off and says she will sign the papers. Maverick regrets his decision but Tallulah is done with him.And I hadn't even suspected anything. Because I thought my intense, devoted husband loved me madly, deeply, eternally.Well, she could fucking have him.I didn't want him.Now for spoilersThe start of this book was a fucking jump scare. Maverick was fucking the OW Amanda who was a bitch. Maverick tells Amanda she is his soulmate and Amanda is tired of hiding their relationship. So not only was this physical cheating, but emotional too. Maverick was married to Tallulah for 10 years, they met when she was 22 and he was 30. I’ve seen too many Reddit stories of middle aged men going for new young adults and then end up cheating. Maverick had no consideration for his kids and sneaked out to fuck Amanda. Amanda was a pick me coworker who talks about how women don’t need to cook or raise kids. Maverick didn’t shut her down when she insulted Tallulah and her career choice. Tallulah was a Tik Tok creator who filmed her life as a wife, cooking and making things from scratch from their animals. She milks cows, takes eggs from chickens, makes butter and milk, shit like that. Amanda begs Maverick to tell Tallulah that he wants a divorce and Maverick gives in. He thinks that he is going to break Tallulah’s heart and it was so fucking satisfying to see Tallulah’s reaction. Tallulah discovered that her husband was cheating. She always asked him to spend more time with the kids but he prioritized Amanda over them. So when he told her he wanted a divorce, she was already preparing herself for it. To make matters worse, Maverick told Tallulah to sign a prenup so if they do divorce, all of Tallulah’s sponsorship money goes to Maverick. Maverick was shocked to see how easy she took it, he thought she would be heartbroken since she loved him but Tallulah didn’t care. And it made him angry because he expected her to cry for him. He thought he would be spending time comforting her but instead, she moves on to cook something. Maverick emphasizes that they are over, he tells her that he was cheating. HE had the audicity to feel betrayed that Tallulah felt nothing after being married for 10 years. Like bruh the fuck, you cheated on her when you were married for 10 years and had 3 KIDS. Gabariel is 7, Seraphina is 5, and Emmylou is 2.“I'm sure it will be a big adjustment for you," I bit out. "Don't pretend like it won't be.""Oh, I think it will be a nice little change," Tallulah said, getting up and moving to the kitchen counter. "I find myself growing bored of the same old stale dick. I'm ready for a younger man for a change. Someone who can keep up with my needs.”Maverick tries to use the kids to get an emotion out of Tallulah. He told her that he was going to introduce Amanda to the kids. Tallulah says that they just need to have a rule of dating the person for 6 months before introducing them to the kids. This was her way of saying she knew his affair was going on for that long. I was a bit wary about this, especially since the kids would be confused as to what was going on, but I threw realism out the window. Tallulah shuts Maverick out and he is so angry that she is taking this so well, he hated that she didn’t look at him with love anymore. He tries to corner her but Tallulah tells him they aren’t together anymore and to back off, she plans to date. So they both agree to rotate the kids between each other every other weekend. Tallulah insists that the kids meet Amanda on the first weekend. Tallulah took off her ring but Maverick never took his off, even when Amanda asked why he didn’t listen. He knew his boss Mr. Perez was a family guy and was working towards a promotion, he didn’t want to tell him about the divorce just yet. Part of me felt like if Amanda wasn’t terrible, Maverick wouldn’t have regretted his decision of leaving Tallulah. Amanda had a sports car and she didn’t want Maverick to put the diaper bag in there. She didn’t want the kids car seat in there but Maverick said they need it. Amanda thought Tallulah would take care of the kids and Amanda would barely get to meet them but Maverick is offended she doesn’t wanna spend time with the kids. Amanda wore heels to the zoo and was tired after awhile. Then, Emmylou shits all over Maverick and they don’t have the diaper bag. Maverick used to complain that Tallulah took too long to check what was in the bag before leaving, but he regretted not bringing. Amanda freaks out about the poo getting in her car and I loved how much she was suffering. Maverick kept arguing with Amanda and was comparing it to how peaceful it was with Tallulah whenever they went out. Probably cuz Tallulah knew how to take care of her own kids.When the kids whine for McDonalds, Amanda says to just get it for them. But Tallulah didn’t let the kids eat in the car since they get car sick. The kids vomit in the car and Amanda freaks out since her new sports car was now disgusting. Once they get home, Maverick is covered in shit while Amanda is furiously cleaning the car. Then Tallulah pulls up with a young guy in a truck who she met on Tik Tok, he was in her DMs for awhile but she never answered until now. She is satisfied to see them suffering and goes to get shoes for a dancing date. Maverick was so pissed to see her on a date which is funny when this guy cheated for half a year. Amanda goes home and Maverick stays up waiting for Tallulah, they’ve been sleeping in separate rooms. Past midnight, Maverick overhears Tallulah fucking the truck driver in his truck. She is loud and Maverick was so jealous and watched. When they finished, they decided to have another go and Maverick yelled at Tallulah. He tries to hit the truck driver whose name was Austin, he says that he is married to Tallulah but she reminds him that they are getting divorced. I loved how Tallulah kept insulting Maverick and even said that he couldn’t last as long as younger guys like Austin. Maverick says that he doesn’t like Tallulah going for shady truck drivers and Tallulah thinks that she will go for his office coworker instead. I wish she did do this cuz it woulda been funny but she just flirts with the coworker and texts him to come over.Amanda has the audacity to insult Tallulah’s career. I don’t know what Maverick saw in Amanda to say “I love you” and calls her his soulmate. Tallulah knew that Amanda and Maverick made comments about her career so she decides to fuck up their retirement savings. She knew the stocks they invested in and talked badly about those companies on Tik Tok. Tallulah had millions of followers so the stock plummets and Amanda and Maverick lose all their savings (again, throw realism out the window y’all). Maverick stays home to keep track of Tallulah and the men she brings over. Amanda doesn’t like the kids, even calling them brats which pisses Maverick off. He doesn’t know what he saw in Amanda and even when he tries to masturbate, he thinks of Tallulah while she was fucking Austin. Tallulah knew that Amanda and Maverick were working to be partners in their law firm. Their boss, Mr. Perez, was a big family man that loved Tallulah. So her next revenge was going to the golf course they were at with Austin. When Mr. Perez asks what she is doing there, Tallulah says she is with her boyfriend, Austin. Tallulah tells him that Maverick is with Amanda. Mr. Perez realized they had an affair and was so pissed. They were demoted and taken off major cases and humiliated in front of the company. He made a speech to keep sexual relations outside of business while he had Maverick and Amanda. Tallulah went home and gave Austin a blowjob and Maverick saw it since he followed them. The lawyer Tallulah was flirting with named James got the cases instead and I loved how James taunted Maverick. He said Maverick was stupid to cheat on Tallulah and how lucky he is to take the cases from Maverick after he did all the work.Maverick wasn’t attracted to Amanda anymore, when he visited her place and she undressed and told him to fuck her, he said no. She is pissed that she gave everything up for him. Tallulah invites James to her place to figure out the prenup situation and flirts with him in front of Maverick. Maverick was more violent as the book went on, he would corner Tallulah or manhandle her, but he starts to tell her he made a mistake. After hearing her make plans with Austin to go on a getaway vacation, Maverick throws the phone on the floor and begs her to give him another chance. Or when Tallulah made jarred pickles, he threw the jars on the ground since Tallulah wasn’t taking him seriously. He needs to work on his anger and needs therapy. Tallulah works with James to find a loophole so she has all her money after the divorce. It was disgusting how Amanda knew that Maverick would have access to Tallulah’s sponsorship money after the divorce. Tallulah started wearing more revealing outfits after the betrayal and managed to seduce many, she was showing Maverick the assets he is missing out on. Tallulah would always cook but now she would cook and eat early with the kids so that Maverick had nothing and would have to go out to the store for food. He continues to beg Tallulah to get back together but Tallulah doesn’t want him. She invites him to a cruise but makes him bring Amanda. Their parents are all gathered and Tallulah told them about Maverick’s affair. It was nice seeing Maverick want nothing to do with her while Amanda.“Tell them!" she cried. "Tell them why you want to divorce her! Because she's such a ridiculous fucking stereotype and all she does all day is, like, bake cookies and have babies! She's just a bimbo and he deserves more!”Maverick and Amanda continue to fight and are forced to share a room. I loved Maverick’s parents, they were so disgusted by him. Maverick’s dad slaps Maverick so many times, they did not hold back.“Simply REPULSIVE""Never in all my goddamn years--"“To cheat on this absolute angel—”“This saint of a woman—""My own flesh and blood!""Did we spoil him too much, Henrietta?”They take Maverick away to diss him about his dick. They find out why he cheated. Maverick was jealous of Tallulah’s successful Tik Tok career and didn’t like that she was doing it. He says she complained about not having time with him but she was out making Tik Toks. His parents defend Tallulah and tell him that he is disgusting.“I certainly agree, Dr. Laurent. Clearly it's about his penis. He feels a sublimated anxiety about its place in the world, perhaps anxiety about if his penis will continue to perform up to expectations as he turns 40."They began to scribble notes furiously on a pad of paper and flip through a book entitled Your Aging Penis And You.At this point, Tallulah was overdoing it with the flirting in my opinion. Maverick is relieved to see Tallulah without Austin but Tallulah says they are casual and she will find other people. She sees four volleyball players and they flirt with her and she makes sure her bikini reveals everything (she said it not me okkk). She sees Amanda flirting and its clear Amanda is trying to find another man. But this guy named Diego was starstruck with Tallulah since she is famous on Tik Tok. Amanda begs Tallulah to leave but she doesn’t and Tallulah asks why Amanda went for a married man with kids. Amanda said cuz she could, so Tallulah continues to flirt with Diego. Maverick continues to have lessons with his parents and everyone is disgusted by him. Everyone hated Amanda and Maverick’s parents did not hold back on their opinions of her.“What in the world made you think that sour bitch was your soulmate?" my mother-in-law asked.Maverick barely sleeps and was going insane, he goes to Tallulah’s room hoping to find something that shows she still has feelings for him. He finds her ring in her bag and he is so relieved but Tallulah is pissed he is there. She tells him to sign some forms and he does it without hesitating. He begs her to have sex since he misses her and Tallulah says they can if she comes before him. But if he comes before her, they can’t have sex. So she uses a toy and masturbates and he wants to touch her but she says he lost his privilege to. Tallulah ends up winning and as she leaves, she tells him that he no longer can take money from her sponsorships once they divorce. When Maverick came into Tallulah’s room, she wrapped him up and locked him in the closet, I thought she was fucking one guy. But nope, she was fucking all 4 volley ball players. I hate threesomes, so this was just too much for me. I’m not into cheating books but Tallulah made the book enjoyable. But this? Too much. Maverick breaks free and gets out the closet and fights everyone. He injures them all and gets arrested and lost his job at the law firm. Tallulah goes to see Amanda on the beach before they leave for the cruise. Amanda was waiting for Diego but Tallulah came to tell Amanda that Maverick doesn’t want her. Amanda doesn’t believe her but Maverick shows up to take Tallulah back to the cruise. When he gets arrested for beating the volleyball guys up, he holds Tallulah’s legs and begs her to forgive him. He barely grovelled, the only reason he saw that he did something wrong was cuz Amanda was a bitch. He missed his old life but he didn’t care for his family before then. Tallulah is pissed with Maverick but wants to forgive him. She asks her parents if she’s an idiot for taking him back. They tell her to do what she wants but Maverick better kiss the floor she walks on.Tallulah tells Maverick he needs to help her get to 40 million subs on Tik Tok, she is currently at 20 million subs. Maverick agrees, he is unemployed and broke. She shows him how to milk cows and make butter. He realizes how hard Tallulah’s work was and how big of an impact she has on stocks and other things. Tallulah asks him to be on Tik Toks and Maverick takes care of the kids, gets up early to help with chores, and helps with the Tik Toks. Eventually Maverick says he misses her body and they end up fucking. Tallulah’s mom comes in and insults Tallulah, she doesn’t blame Maverick for cheating. Her husband makes comments about her weight and her mom does the same. Maverick defends Tallulah and says that he was terrible for cheating. Tallulah is scared to say I love you and he says he will wait. She reaches 40 million subs and is so happy, she bought her dad multiple houses and has enough money for her kids’ futures. Maverick takes Tallulah fencing since that was when they first met and he fell for her. When they fence, Tallulah lets out her anger and Maverick kneels down, takes the safety off the blade and tells her to cut his neck if she needs to let her anger out. He says he knows he fucked up and deserves to die for it and holds the sword to his neck. But Tallulah says she loves him and he says it back and they make up. In the epilogue we see them at an art gallery with their parents and they are happily together. Despite me enjoying the story, the ending was very rushed. Maverick barely grovelled imo and usually when it comes to grovel, I need to believe that the MMC won’t cheat again. With Maverick I’m unsure. Even though he suffered a ton, I can’t buy his love for Tallulah. He only realized he fucked up when he saw how terrible Amanda was. And maybe his jealousy when she was with Austin. I also didn’t like how Tallulah focused on sexualizing herself the entire time. I loved it at first, it was empowering to see her know she is hot. I loved that she purposefully had Maverick see her and Austin. But the fivesome was something I hated, it was just so unnecessary. A small bonus is Maverick never brings up all the sex she had or slut-shamed her. I also feel bad for the kids, they were barely mentioned but they were put into really confusing situations. Amanda was around and their parents were acting off, but Imma just throw realism out the window for that. All in all, fun read but could be better.Stay safe folks!