HOLY HOTNESS! Immoral Confessions in one word is DELICIOUS.This is R. Holmes' best work to date- I am obsessed! A story dark, provocative, and addictive-the perfect balance of that yummy bully love-hate tension with a nuanced and emotional character chemistry. Rhys and Valentina will totally consume you with their titillating intensity and passionate push-pull, but even more so, they'll charm their way straight to your heart with their vulnerable intimacy and tender connection.Sweet little Valentina just wants to survive the shark-infested waters of her prestigious and elite catholic prep school. Lonely at home, lonely at school, and meaningless to everyone but her bestie, she just wants to do what it takes to get to Harvard and finally start a life she wants. But fate has other plans, and once she finds herself in the wrong place at the wrong time, she ends up in the crosshairs of the cruel king himself, Rhys Blackwood. And no one crosses Rhys. Bring on the battle of wills and all the confusing angsty feelings as the devil battles his little lamb- Valentina has found herself the prey of the ultimate bully.RHYS. HOLD ONTO YOUR OVARIES- this man. He’s cruel, dominant, and ruthless. But we so recognize his twisted darkness as a protective shroud- this is a man whose heart is tender underneath it all, he has a savage fragility that has made him feral, has caused him to weaponize control and fear in order to protect the shattered pieces of his soul. He’s hard to like, but easy to love- as we see him torture and punish poor Valentina in the same breathe that he fiercely protects his chosen brothers. And when we see his heart, oh my. OH MY. RH gives Rhys such complexity, an emotional and beautiful heart’s center, but we first have to untangle the barbed wire around his heart. But Valentina does- because Rhys sees a kindred spirit in his little lamb, and soon he struggles to know what he needs more- his control, his revenger or her willing submission, her heart.Valentina is full of beautiful contrasts- she’s the kinky good girl, the soft, naive and fragile fighter, demure and sassy, broken but resilient. But truly, she’s just lost and alone. Trapped in a life that beats her down, she just wants to feel worthy. To be seen- and what a tragedy that the first time someone truly sees her, he wants to destroy her. And then the magic happens- we see her grow, she somehow gets Rhys to open, and he gets her to stand up for herself. Yes, the bully inspires her strength. Watching her character growth is so powerful and awarding- she’s a heroine you cheer for.This is really a story about character growth- characters who are figuring out how to confront what haunts them, characters learning how to fight for what they want, and characters recognizing their own worth. How ironic that they find that fulfillment, the peace and safety they need in the arms of an enemy- but their toxic relationship helps them both SEE themselves, and each other. And they find their wounds fit each other. Their relationship, our narrative, and the romantic tone evolve as they do- all while we have a a dark and dangerous mystery underscoring their volatile and addictive romance. YUM.RH really nails the bully aspect here- she pushes us just to our limits. She takes Rhys to the verge of the unforgivable, but then she gives him heart, and she certainly gives him penance. And I love that RH also makes Valentina so complicated- she’s not fragile or a doormat, rather a part of her own baggage somehow calls to Rhys’- psychologically we understand how his behavior, as deplorable as it may be, confuses her- because for the first time ever, she’s the center of someone’s world, even if that is a very dangerous place to be. And RH gives dynamism to this relationship- we get to see these two at odds, and we see how quickly and easily they evolve into something less toxic, something more healthy. They have the same hearts, but they are better versions of themselves as the result of their connection….and they have the same baggage, but they are more equipped to cope, they have more strength- and what was a toxic dynamic becomes one stable and sweet. Only RHYS can make me want to punch him in one sentence and swoon in another. I love that RH makes space for us to revel in their sweetness as much as their darkness, to see these characters grow together and exist beyond their bully trope.What a magical combination of intrigue and mystery, bully dynamics, sweet emotional moments, and DELICIOUS steam- THIS BOOK IS SO SEXY. Like need multiple cold showers, will never look at a library or confessional the same again SEXY. I can not WAIT for more of this world- RH has taken her craft to the next level, and I can not wait to see what she does next!Please note: this story as dub/non con elements and might not be for everyone. And, while Valentina and Rhys get their HEA, the overarching story of the friends spans all books- you WILL be thirsty for answers you do not get- but stay tuned, it is going to blow your mind!