My Journey with this Series and Author Ends Here...I don’t have a problem with violence or dark themes of any kind, I have read, reviewed, and recommended books far more violent than Carol Dawn’s, Infernal Sons MC series books. If the events taking place are naturally employed and integral to the storyline and overall theme of the story world being portrayed it is more than reasonable to include even the darkest of material. Dawn is no exception to this, and I have, in my other six reviews of her work, always defended and found positive aspects of every book she has written, even when others did not. However, increasingly over the last four books, she seems to be ratcheting up the sexual and other physical violence toward the female characters within the series for no reason other than senseless glorification. She has also increased her use of offensive stereotyping, something I have referenced in several of my reviews of Dawn’s books, deploring her to not devolve to such gimmicky plot devices. Yet now here with “Ink’s Second Chance” I am saddened beyond belief to see not only has the above gotten worse, it is now at levels I can no longer endure.This book left me stunned. I am honestly at a loss for words in regards to it, because after just completing another review mere days ago in which I wrote about how happy I was to see the improvements in Carol Dawn’s fifth book. A review where I wrote how I found that story to be a huge improvement both technically and emotionally, after two books in a row containing under researched, out of place plot devices and cheesy stereotypes. Then she releases this. A book with a level of gratuitous, offensive stereotyping and plot pandering so outrageous, it is an absolute literary jumping of the proverbial plot shark.Where I once thought there was hope for growth; a new author feeling out her literary groove and learning with each passing book. I am now no longer confident she is interested in the care and growth of her characters and story world. Ink’s story showcases someone who, in my opinion, is topic trolling and cramming as many sensational plot devices as she can think of into a book without at all caring how incorrect or damaging the result is. The events that take place in this story are incomplete, often seem random, and are wholly unnecessary. There is no effort taken to offer or illustrate the secondary emotional care and thoughtfulness that need to be attached to the scenes of rape, corporal punishment and torture that are in this book. And after the effort she put into the patient, thoughtful attention given to Rose in book one, and Thea in book four, I find what she does in this book not only confusing, but callously lazy. It is an outrageously simplistic slant on a slew of heavy, heavy events. The seeming frivolity of which I cannot stomach. These characters deserved so much more, the readers deserve so much more. And after three books of ridiculous character depictions that are so far off base they border on offensive and just plain stupid I can endure no more.Sadly, I cannot find it within me to go beyond this book, I am done, and my journey with this series and this author ends here.