This story is about a guy named Jameson. He was in the marines and was in a horrible attack. He was on patrol with 5 other guys. He noticed something was right but it was too late. There was a bomb that blew up. 4 of the guys died, he saved one and lost his legs. This is his story about what happened after that. The book starts on the day he is getting discharged from the hospital. He has a fiancée named Mary-Beth; they have been together since high school. She has waited 3 years for him. She wants him to be happy that he survived and be there with her now. He understands this but wants her to understand that it is going to be hard. He feels like he should have died that day. She isn’t happy with this and is frustrated. She wants things to be the way they used to be but Jameson can’t go back because that person doesn’t exist anymore for him. He doesn’t feel whole anymore with out his legs. He is to be fitted with prosthetics. At his first visit he finds out that the person helping him learn to walk is his friend from childhood Samantha. She is tough, funny, and won’t let him feel sorry for himself. She lets him know that it is okay to ask for help. That she doesn’t think any less of him for needing it right now. And that even if he wants to act like a fool and think he doesn’t need any she will be there anyway. Over the next few weeks he notices that there is something different about Sam like something has happened to her. The light that used to be in her eyes isn’t there anymore. Jameson wants to know what happened to her. Sam warns him about phantom pains and tells him what will help with them. After 5 months he can finally walk out of therapy instead of being wheeled out. He has a night with Mary-Beth that feels like a good bye. The next day he learns that is was. He starts therapy and realizes he has feeling for Sam. When she finally agrees to go on a date with him they have a great time until he drops her off then something happens. She doesn’t talk to him for weeks. He finally runs into her one night and gets her to tell him what happened to her. He never expects anything like what she tells him. Samantha has been through her own version of hell. Its part of the reason she has the job she has. Now that his life is turning around and his is happy with Sam of course Mary-Beth starts coming back around. Will Sam finally let him be with her in a real relationship? Will Mary-Beth try to get in between them and back with Jameson? Will he ever go visit the families of the men that died and visit their graves? Can he have a future with Sam when he still holding onto the past?I really liked this book. He goes through so much to come out stronger and better on the other side. He wasn’t easy and goes through more on the journey. I must say I hate Mary-Beth and love Sam. One wants him to just get over it and the other understands what he is going through and just wants to help him. Sam goes through so much herself and they really help each other complete the journey. This is a really great book, fantastically written with great characters. I felt like I was on this journey with them. The supporting characters where great also. Sam and Jameson have these great friends that support them through everything.I was given this book as a gift in return for an honest review.