welcome to: “did this book really need to exist?” part 4343225.alternatively titled: a bland man does the bare minimum and people eat it up like he’s an austen character.i swore i’d never read another coho book, but it ends with us was the only one i could somewhat stomach so i decided to read it starts with us to see how it was.yikes.this review will be in bullet points. minor spoilers will be included, but read it anyway as a warning not to read this book.edit: for those of you in my comments going “if you don’t have anything nice to say don’t say it at all!”: we’re allowed to critically consume literature? i’m allowed to write a glowing review of one book and a critical review of another. that’s why this is abook reviewing site.like if you can’t handle seeing a one star review or acknowledging that people have different opinions, then don’t read one star reviews! there are thousands of five star ones you can read. go read those instead literally nobody is making you read this lmao.• i don’t get why this book had to exist. it just feels like she is monetizing off the weird success it ends with us got on booktok, and it definitely reads like a cash grab as well.• if it ends with us was about lily, why did colleen hoover work so hard to try and make atlas into a sexy hero? the only thing i could give it ends with us merit for was the message of breaking the cycle (even that is up for debate). this did not need a sequel at all.• atlas talking and defending himself about the age he and lily had sex was really breaking the fourth wall. coho definitely was trying to un-fuck up her mistake by making this a sympathy point.• lily and atlas didn’t really have a foundation of their relationship (which is ironic because atlas talks about ryle and lily’s relationship this way as well) other than the fact that they both had a bad childhood. lily puts atlas on this pedestal because he was there for her at her most vulnerable.• my theory still stands: colleen hoover, ironically, cannot write a good romance. i believe every single one of her books has these terrible, wild plot twists to cover up the fact that she cannot. lily and atlas had zero chemistry apart from them talking about how miserable they were when they first met and how they were each other’s saving grace.• also. i did not buy this book, i borrowed it from a friend, so i don’t have a ground to say this but: she included so many flashbacks and used pages of writing from it ends with us? lower the price girl.• a sequel, which is an outright romance, being written to a book (marketed as a romance which is so gross) about domestic abuse really throws me off.• (the letters were basically coho saying “see they are in love! they’re not bland! they do have other things in common other than their trauma!) which is false.• speaking of plot points manufactured to make lily and atlas seem like they had more in common: the brother thing came out of fucking nowhere.• lily doesn’t have a decent support system. i know she says that she does, but having your abusive ex husband’s sister as your best friend (and literally only her, as lily mentions in the book), is just not? like yes it’s better than nothing but i really hated the way allysa acted in a bunch of scenes. like is she supposed to be a likable character?• WHY IS LILY STILL WRITING TO ELLEN??? AT YOUR BIG AGE?• also. every time tiktok is mentioned in a book, an angel loses its wings. you're telling me lily knows about tiktok and gen z but she doesn't know that ellen is a horrible person? ok• atlas is literally so bland. like i get it. he’s nice. he makes sure to say that he’d never hit a woman every five sentences. good fucking job atlas. you’ve reached the bare minimum.• atlas writing lily letters and saying “i love you” in a thousand different ways to offset ryle’s character…balance doesn’t work like that.• speaking of: stop writing her letters for the love of god i literally don’t know if my heart is cold and dead but we get it atlas, you love her and can’t live without her and she saved you. you don’t have to say it a hundred times!! what a waste of paper!!! give us some new content king!• naming her daughter emerson dory kincaid is literally the worst thing lily blossom bloom has done.in conclusion, sometimes you try things and they don’t work out colleen! for me it is ice skating, for you it is writing. and that’s ok!——————————————————instagram: ellereadsomebooks