I originally read one of the later books from this series as a standalone (Wren) because I saw it on a cheating list (it really wasn’t) and never continued the series, but I’ve been craving mc shenanigans, so I picked up Cypher (the last book in the series) and liked it, so I decided to just read the damn thing in order.I had actually already read this and was halfway through Rigg’s book when I went on my girl’s trip where we binge listened to the Last Rider’s books, so these got put on the back burner for a couple of weeks, and I ended up having to reread them to get back on track. I remember thinking these were a bit dicey with the OW drama shenanigans, but after reading that (The Last Riders) series… these guys are tame, and IMO much more committed to their gals once they pull their head out of their asses. The LR’s have some die-hard fangirls, but I’d much rather be one of these dude’s ol’ ladies if I had to choose. Moving on…The blurb sets this up, Jenna is on the run from an abusive situation when she runs into Kellan. He’s not looking to settle down and in club girl sampling mode but feels oddly protective of the smoking hot new girl in town. Stuff happens, and these two get their HEA. Kellan and Jenna were alright, but they (especially Jenna) felt immature at times, and that was off putting.Bottom Line- I’m writing this after reading all of them, and they all have the same feel. They’re ok, enjoyable enough, but I wasn’t wowed. They all follow a formula somewhat, there’s some push/pull, drama from a wannabe OW, and some danger coming to the h (usually some type of attack). They all have some type of H/OW action, but are all technically safe (I believe), but I’ll put the deets at the end. All available on KU.Random- I read these out of order and read his brother’s book (Wren) first. It’s weird, or maybe the author didn’t plan it out, but Larkin is the wannabe OW in his bro’s book and had been trying to get in there for YEARS, so it’s weird that she was trying to get with Kellen in this book. One would think Wren wouldn’t be down with that.Safety-The book opens with him in bed with another woman (Larkin). It’s after the deed and all off page. There is one situation where they have maybe kissed (possibly) showed interest, but she’s skittish and has pushed back on having a relationship, and they had a falling out where he shows up at the bar she works, gets drunk and hangs on/kisses/fingers a girl (Larkin again I think -she’s the aggressor) in front of her. He realizes what he’s doing, pushes her away and goes after h. OW throw themselves at him after that but he only wants h.