Trigger Warnings:FMC called gold digger, loss of loved ones, breast cancer detailed, someone dying in car accident, suicide ideation with details, thoughts of self-harm/overdosing, depression, alcoholic parent, drug addict parent whose sex life was exposed to kid, poverty, emotional and verbal abuse, abandonment, teen pregnancies, domestic abuse for side character’s parents, MMC kissed OW when he first got with FMC but they weren’t official, talks of abortion, attempted assault to side character, racism, woman calling FMC fat, death of side character to cancer“I do love my family, but I need to be loved too," I told her. "I'm so tired of taking care of those who don't return the favor.”I was craving an angsty romance andMel🌜recommended this so I decided to give it a go. While it was an addicting read, I didn’t love the characters much. This is a quick, short, angsty read that I recommend you check out if you want a marriage-in-trouble book. It feels like a Harlequin romance so it’ll give y’all a bit of nostalgia. The grovel was meh, I was happy for the couple but it wasn’t satisfying to me. I hated Gray the MMC, I just don’t understand how the fuck he thought it was okay to treat his wife so badly for 20 years. When you see flashbacks of how cruel he was, he just seemed like such a manchild. Our FMC Rose doesn’t have a backbone at first. She does start to stand up for herself but she was still easygoing. The beginning was repetitive, it was the same conversation being held by different characters. Gray would tell people Rose left him and everyone would tell him that it seemed like he hated Rose. I don’t feel these characters are memorable but the book did get me emotional. The side characters were meh, I loved Malou but that’s about it.Rose got married to Gray when she was 18 because she was pregnant. It has been 20 years and after being ignored by Gray and her kids, Rose has decided to put herself first for once and leave. Gray finally opens his eyes to how shitty he was to Rose. He wants to win her back but doesn’t know if Rose will take him back.Now for spoilersSeeing how Rose was treated by the family was insane to me. She waits for Gray to come home for their anniversary and he comes late. He forgot it was their anniversary and Rose had gifts ready for him. Gray feels guilty but doesn’t make an effort to spend time with Rose. Rose is used to being treated like an afterthought. Gray stopped sharing a bed with her months ago and there are rumours he is fucking his assistant Aimee. Her kids Willow and Jude don’t respect her. She is treated like a maid, she cooks and cleans. Jude was an ass who would tell Rose to stop talking since she didn’t finish college thanks to her pregnancy. Gray would never tell his kids to stop disrespecting Rose, he enabled it. Rose would have instances where she wants to cry and disappear but holds back with a smile. When she got pregnant at 18, she lived with her drug addict mom in a trailer. Her best friend was Malou and they took care of each other while growing up. When Rose got pregnant, Gray told her to get an abortion. He was seen with another girl the next day and kissed her in front of Rose. But when his friends made jokes saying they wanted to get with trailer trash Rose, Gray decided he wanted Rose. So he proposed to marry her and Rose accepted him without a second thought. She didn’t really call him out for kissing OW. She always thought he married her because of the pregnancy and he always mentioned it whenever they fought which didn’t make it better. His mom opposed the marriage and called Rose a gold digger, she insulted Rose throughout the marriage and Gray did nothing to defend her. Gray would fuck her whenever he wanted, complained about her food, whined when Rose would bring up concerns, and treated her like absolute shit.I don’t know how the fuck Rose lasted in the marriage for 20 years. She has tried to tell Gray her concerns, but he would lash out and make her feel like her feelings weren’t valid. Rose worked hard to be the best wife since his parents never accepted her, she just wanted Gray happy. In doing so, she put aside her feelings and felt like what she had to say wasn’t important. Her kids started to ignore her as they grew older since they didn’t think Rose was cool like their dad. They had a separate group chat without Rose and Gray never included Rose. He was a good father to his kids but a terrible husband. The twins Willow and Jude shocked me at how rude they were with their mother, especially Jude. Gray went to Rose’s bed after she fell asleep and thought she was beautiful, but he slept in a separate bed on their anniversary, as he had done for months. He says that it is because he works late and doesn’t wanna wake her up. The next day, Rose wakes up and sees that Gray never opened his anniversary gift. She knew he didn’t care much for her and decided she was leaving him.Rose decides to go to her friend Malou’s place. Malou runs a Breakfast and Bed House (B&B House) and Rose helps her. Malou got cancer a while back and Rose has been taking care of her. Rose tried to talk to Gray about her concerns for Malou but Gray didn’t give a shit. He never listens to her since he is so focused on running his company, he is the CEO. Rose doesn’t have much family other than Malou, but Malou wasn’t allowed at Rose’s wedding because of Gray’s mom. Gray’s mom was racist and since Malou was black, she didn’t want her at the wedding. Gray could have defended Rose if he truly loved her, but he didn’t. He knew nothing about Rose’s life, he didn’t know Malou or where she lived. He didn’t make an effort to get to know Rose which was why I had a hard time believing he loved Rose. Rose called him her darling Gray and Gray took her for granted. Whenever Rose texts him, he ignores it, and when she calls him, he doesn’t answer. If she calls his office, his assistant Aimee picks up and says that Gray is busy. Gray only answers messages if his kids reach out to him, his wife is never his priority. He had a prenup for his marriage that his mom set up because she didn’t want Rose to take his money. If Rose decides to leave the marriage, she will get no money. But if Gray decides to end the marriage, he will give her some money. Rose never felt like his money was hers since he always said it was his money. Whenever she complained about his mom, he would shut her down. Rose started to feel like she didn’t want to live and had suicidal thoughts. She went as far as to get pills out to think about overdosing. Luckily Rose realized that this was concerning and went to therapy but Rose was suffering on her own while her family treated her like shit. Especially since they played a main role in why her mental health has declined, she was battling with depression and suicidal ideation without them knowing.Rose leaves Gray a letter the day after their anniversary. She tells Gray that she is leaving him since she doesn’t feel that she is needed in their family and would like to focus on herself. She tells him she will contact him with divorce papers and will pay him $5,000 back which she borrowed and give the car back. She leaves their wedding rings and everything else. It’s so sad since Rose didn’t even think her family would notice she was gone. Gray talks to his friends and family who all assume that he hates Rose and is fucking his assistant Aimee. He sees Rose’s letter and he is pissed that Rose left. You see flashbacks of how he treated her and he would feel guilty but he was so cruel and selfish. Rose claims that their marriage had good moments but I swear she is lying to herself, their marriage sounded terrible from the start. She thinks it only got bad in the recent years. Gray tells his friends that Rose left and they thought Gray was relieved since they knew about the prenup. He tells everyone that he is not with Aimee and they are surprised. When Gray tells his kids, Jude says Rose is doing it for attention. Even his kids thought that he had something going on with Aimee. Willow has a boyfriend named Mike who holds everyone accountable for treating Rose like shit. Gray feels guilt and cries so I assumed he would make things better but nope. When Gray tells Aimee that Rose left him, she is thrilled. Gray finds her attractive but he loves Rose and would never cheat on her. I guess this is his silver lining, that he doesn’t cheat, the bare minimum. Gray asks Aimee why she didn’t transfer Rose’s calls to him and we find out that Gray told her not to. This idiot has some memory issues because he forgot all the instances he hurt Rose until people told him. He made it seem like Rose was this annoying wife who wouldn’t leave him alone and told Aimee not to send the calls over. Gray feels guilty and tells her to send the calls over from now on. Aimee insinuates that they can get together but Gray shuts her down. Even though she stepped out of line, he thought she was a good worker and decided to keep her around, the idiot.Gray’s brother Holden is married to a bitch named Bonnie who treated Rose like shit too. When she first married Gray, Holden thought she was a gold digger and didn’t treat her well. But over the years, he realized Rose was an amazing wife and envied Gray. Holden started to treat Rose well after he respected her. When Gray told him Rose left him, he thought Gray was happy. By this point, we have heard the same conversation Gray was having with everyone. They were all happy for him since they thought he hated Rose and would tell him how he mistreated her. They all knew about the prenup and thought he was fucking Aimee. Rose was taking care of Malou at her B&B house, Malou’s cancer was getting worse. When Rose wanted to visit Malou and Gray stopped her because he had an event. Rose insisted that Malou needed her but Gray yelled at her to come. When she went to the event, Gray spent the whole time standing beside his assistant Aimee. Rose contacts her lawyer to send Gray the papers. Rose’s lawyer is her friend Leah who gives Gray a piece of her mind. Gray tells her he loves Rose and won’t sign the papers. Rose calls Jude and Willow to give them an update on where to reach her but they don’t answer. What I hated was Rose reached out to Gray first. Of course, he doesn’t answer but she used a new number. Rose tries to call his work phone and Aimee doesn’t redirect the call to him. When Gray finds out, he says that Aimee doesn’t have to redirect his calls since she isn’t following instructions, he could have fired her but he doesn’t. Even after this, he doesn’t try to call Rose back. Rose gets a call from Leah who tells her that Gray refused to sign the papers. So Rose reached out to Gray AGAIN, which annoyed me. Gray says that he missed Rose and loved her but made no effort to look for her when she left. The guy has so much money he could have hired someone to look for her but he doesn’t. For weeks he was moping but did NOTHING. Like bruh wtf, how is it you love her but don’t make any effort once she leaves?Rose calls Gray to find out why he didn’t sign the papers. I thought maybe Gray will start grovelling. Nah, this asshole continues to be an ass despite his half-assed self-reflection. When Rose called, he demanded that she come back home. Rose admits that their marriage made her reach a place where she felt like dying. Gray gets offended and tells her that she should be grateful he married her. I’m sorry what the fuck? Rose isn’t lucky to marry you, you piece of shit. It shocked me cuz this guy was CRYING cuz Rose left him. Even after she messaged him on her new phone and he found out that she called his work phone, he didn’t reach out. And when SHE contacts him AGAIN, he insults her and tells her that he will sign the papers because she is ungrateful? Fuck you Gray.“You know what, Rose, I gave you everything. A great house and anything you ever wanted, and this is your thanks? You say that I'm such a fucking terrible husband that you want to kill yourself. So, fine, do whatever the fuck you want to do. I'll sign the damn papers and send them. Keep the car and the five thousand dollars. You fuckin' earned it.”Rose realized that it was a good thing she left the marriage and Gray regretted the phone call. Gray snoops on Rose’s phone since she left it behind and found emails between her and her therapist. He finds out that Rose had multiple instances where she was thinking about suicide and even counted the pills since she was ready to die. She wished she had cancer instead of Malou and just wanted to die and disappear. He takes screenshots and sends it to his kids. Jude is a piece of work, but he finally realizes he fucked up after a bit. Willow cries since she had no idea her mom was suicidal. So they all decide that they will visit Rose at Malou’s B&B House. Gray takes 6 months off and lets a guy named Justin become a step in CEO. Before going, he visits Rose’s therapist and the therapist told him that they won’t be telling him anything. Gray believed he needed therapy which thank fuck for that. We find out through therapy that Gray stopped having sex with Rose after this one night when he said he needed her and didn’t make sure she orgasmed. He thought that this wasn’t Rose’s first time faking it during sex and felt guilty. Rather than communicating, he started sleeping in the guest room and used the excuse that he worked late. He saw Rose as his safe place so he shut her down when she complained since he didn’t wanna deal with that, so stupid. He admits that if Rose talks about her concerns, it is like taking his safe place away which he admits is wrong.Gray contacted Malou to have rooms since they wanted to surprise Rose. Gray and Jude came together and Willow came later with Mike. Jude felt terrible and started hugging Rose and telling her she mattered. Jude started therapy to work on himself, he mentioned that he was insecure. Gray starts grovelling to Rose and by now, Rose finally got a backbone. Rose stops calling Gray “My Darling Gray” and called him out for how he treated her. She didn’t trust that he was back because he loved her. Gray started to help out with the B&B House which Rose was going to take over once Malou passed. Gray made an effort to get to know Malou who was super chill. She made sure to tell him to work for forgiveness. Gray would ask Rose if she would ever take him back and Rose would ask for time. But Rose forgave Willow and Jude immediately since they were her kids. Gray starts helping Rose in the kitchen which he never used to do. Rose told him how he treated her like a maid and made her feel like she wasn’t good enough. She told him he didn’t do anything when his mom would insult her. She called him out for ignoring her and he listens to everything she says and says her feelings are valid. Gray tells her he took 6 months off which confuses Rose. The kids and Gray help out in the kitchen and its nice to see Rose content with her family, Gray realizes that these moments are more valuable than his business. The kids stay until Christmas but Gray stays after they leave.Gray helps her clean rooms and is constantly with Rose, trying to talk to her or get attention. Whenever Rose lashes out to stand up for herself, he is holding back since he wants to be gentle with her, holding back his anger. The fact that he even has the thought is a bit concerning. At least he’s in therapy but he needs to calm the fuck down. One of the workers need help with building a wall since it was damaged. Gray offers to help but Rose is pissed and goes to his room. He is naked and fingers her instead of getting off himself. He admits he stopped having sex with her after that one time since he thought she faked enjoying it. But Rose says that it doesn’t matter if she orgasms since she loves sex with him. They don’t have sex until Rose fully forgives him and starts calling him her darling Gray again. Gray tells her that he decided to step down from being CEO and work in operations so he has more time to spend with her. Rose wants to live in the B&B House and Gray praises her for running the place, saying she didn’t need to go to college to learn all of this. He admits to snooping on her phone and apologizes. Rose believes he is doing all of this because he knows her suicidal thoughts but Gray tells her he loves her and will prove it to her. Rose doesn’t think that his money is her money and Gray calls his lawyer to cancel the prenup. He wanted Rose to have half of everything he owned if she did decide to leave him.He hires a nurse to care for Malou but they are always with her. Once Malou dies, they honour her by throwing her ashes into the lake. The kids come to visit for Malou’s funeral, everyone apologized to her when she was alive for not making an effort to get to know her. They keep their house in Atlanta but live in the B&B House. Whenever Gray has a board meeting, he visits Atlanta with Rose. There is an event and Gray announces he is stepping down. Aimee tries to bother Rose but Rose ignores her. Gray calls Rose to the stage, telling everyone they will run a B&B together. This is his way of making up for the Aimee rumours and he kisses Rose in front of everyone. Rose starts calling Gray “My Darling Gray” and they start having sex again. Gray makes an office in the home where he works limited hours. I liked that he got therapy and worked on himself. When they went to visit Holden and his wife Bonnie insulted Rose. Gray stood up for Rose and told them that they are leaving. It does surprise me that he treated Rose like this for 20 fucking years. I don’t know how the fuck she had the patience to stay but I loved the ending. It was bittersweet since Malou died but it was nice to see the family happy.Stay safe folks!