➥ 4.75 Stars *:･ﾟ✧Softly, darkly, Manson said, "Lucas, do you want to fuck her?"The other man's eyes were black as night when he looked at me. "Yes. I want to make her scream.""Ask nicely."Lucas bared his teeth for a moment and buries his mouth against Manson's neck as if to keep the words inside."Please let me fuck her."━━━━━━━━━━━ ♡ ━━━━━━━━━━━Thankyou Harley Laroux for the arc in exchange for a review!Ladies and gentlemen, today is the day - the release of this fucking blessing. Harley Larouxneverdisappoints me. This surrounds and tells the story of characters fromThe Dare, so that one should be read before this one. I don't quite know what to say other than this was uh, great? I expected for Manson to always be my number 1 and for the others to just be cute additions but let me tell you, my heart is divided equally between them all. The sex was great, as per usual. And the romance? HL aways pulls through on the front of creating dark stories surrounding sex, but always executing the romance. The tenderness and love is something you'll always feel is there, because it is.➥ Jess (h)was interesting...I'll say. Do I love her nearly as much as I do the boys? No. Do I wish I did? Yes. I always roll my eyes when popular people feel all victimised when they're the ones traumatising people, but she did own up to it in the end and her love for all of them felt very real. Do I like her character? Not really. She reminded me of Ryen fromPunk 57but with a little less substance, really. She was childish and often a pick me girl but I didn't really care? She wasn't as great as Juniper fromHer Soul for Revengebut was much better than Rae fromHer Soul to Take. To be fair, Harley had to work with the character she had written for The Dare and I think that must've been challenging.➥ Manson (H)is still my bae. I love him, he's everyone's daddy let's be real. The "Angel" will never get old and he will always be an icon. His daddy issues run deep though...damn.Manson stepped closer. Before I even realised what was happening, he'd scooped me up, my feet leaving the ground as he easily carried me the rest of the way down the hall."What are you doing?" I said, as he shoved open my bedroom door with his foot."Getting that sad look off your face," he said, smiling at me crookedly as he stopped next to my bed. He dumped me on the mattress but followed me down, crawling on top of me. He buried his face against me neck, the combination of his mouth and warm breath trailing over my skin making me erupt in a fit of laughter.➥ Lucas (H)is one I have a real soft spot for. He's the one I disliked the most at first, but his strong relationship with Manson isEVERYTHINGand he has his moments when you're like aw. He also liked being called a "good boy"...just saying..."They're back," I said.Lucas took my hand again. He lifted it to his lips, kissing my knuckles tenderly. "Let's go see what happened."➥ Vincent (H)is my man. I mean they all are mine, just to be clear, but he's my favourite I think. He's funny, he's unhinged and I love him, your honour.He stood suddenly, tucking the umbrella against his shoulder before he extended his hand to me. I stared at his open palm, blinking rapidly in confusion. "What?""Doesn't feel right for the Prom Queen to not get her slow dance," he said, a slight smile playing around his lips.➥ Jason (H)is a cutie patootie. I adore his relationship with Vinc :(, they're so STINKING cute.Jason's fingers brushed my shoulder. "Come with us," he said softly. "Let's get you out of here."For starters, I'd say, be prepared for the beginning of this book to be utter shite ok? We get scenes in highschool from before The Dare and it's terrible. Typical literal teenagers that "run the school" and Jess just had no fucking backbone, it was painful to read. Reminds me of how silly series like "Fall Away" and "Devil's Night" are with the highschool being like the fucking mafia lmao. I just think that the drama notch needed to be aggressively turned down at the beginning.When we get to after The Dare though? That's when the fun begins. A leads to B and Jess is repaying her debt by becoming their whore. Kinda? But yeah that's the gist and it's entertaining as fuck bye.The way they're all so in love with eachother is driving me crazy. I haven't really read many other polyamorous books but I feel like that aspect was well-executed. Especially when compared to reverse harems where there's some dicking down for everyone. I feel like you could really see all the dynamics so distinctly and it was excellently, beautifully done."Breakfast is coming up!" Vincent called from the kitchen as we came back inside. I could smell bacon and hash browns, and when I looked into the kitchen, there were multiple bowls on the counter and pans on the stove. He glanced over his shoulder at me with a grin, his long hair messily tied up as he added another pancake to the stack in front of him.Like shut the fuck up, the domestic scenes are already driving me crazy. But before I weep about how fucking perfect they all are, let me give you the quotes we're all here for."Are you ready to be a good girl for us?" he said as Lucas's arms wrapped around his chest. Lucas rested his chin on Manson's shoulder, tenderly kissing his neck.Somebody sedate me rn. Lucas and Manson areso inexplicably perfect, it's unbearable.His hand trailed over my body, rough and hard, when he pulled up my dress and pressed himself against me."Terrible taste," he murmured again. "What are you fucking with trash for, huh? Pretty little thing like you."Let me pick my jaw up off the floor rq.He tugged the knife out of the tree and grasped my hand. He held my palm up between the two of us, slowly rubbing his thumb over my fingers."You're not afraid?" He watched my face carefully. He'd know if I lied.I shook my head. "No."Delicately, he pressed the sharp tip of the blade against the pad of my middle finger. There was a subtle sting as my skin parted, blood welling up. He moved the knife in slow small lines and I was mesmerized by the sight.What he left behind was a tiny heart, etched into my finger. The pain wasn't even as bad as a papercut, so why did it feel like it sliced so deep?Yeah, is life even worth living if Manson doesn't carve a heart into my middle finger??? The answer is no.Okok, now time for substantiality on my part, regardless of the rough beginning, this book exceeded my expectations. The smut was so good (that was expected - dw), and the romance? Hello?? I truly think Harley Laroux is the future of dark romance because she does everythingright.Wealwaysget emphatic consent, we get unique, incredibly well fleshed-out characters, and fuckingromance. They all have their moments with Jess, and of course, with eachother. The love they have for eachother is palpable, and yet so different and unique to each pair. Like can we talk about Vincent carrying Jess on his shoulders so she could watch a car race better? This shit is so fucking romantic that it's painful.Of course there was also tear-inducing aftercare. Them all snuggling up trying to fit on one bed together?? Hello?? I forget who but one of them ran a bath for Jess. Then Vincent cooks pancakes. Shut the fuckup,I felt this book in my soul.The "ily" between Lucas and Manson? I'll never recover.Still, no book is perfect so here are some of my very few complaints. Like I mentioned, rough cringey beginning. The highschool times were really dramatised and cringey imo, but that was a problem left long in the past once we get to the time set after "The Dare".Also, at the beginning there was astrongemphasis on the guys being super super mega emo and it just got kinda jarring when it was mentioned every second? But again, that definitely stops happening after The Dare.I was a little concerned with the romanticisation of drugs because it's something I personally don't appreciate, but in the end it was mentioned that they all want to stop smoking and doing drugs in general so that's really heartwarming <33And the last thing? I whine about this all the time so it's definitely a me thing, but I could definitely do withfewer dick-in-mouth scenes.It seemed that in every scene they did together, that was absolutely necessary to include? I don't mind if it's a sometimes, but I wish there had been more group scenes that didn't involve her being stuffed in the mouth...lol. Between the guys too I suppose. And the nickname "fucktoy" wasn't my fav...? Years better than "babygirl" though.Also, the car racing aspect was a tad sappy, I wasn't totally buying it.That scene between Lucas and Manson with the whole worship thing they had going on...didn't really do it for me either?Ah, one last thing, the evil dad plot we have going on is kinda cheap, I fear...hopefully it'll just add stakes and change? I guess we'll see but I also don't care.Also also, I need to see Vincent hangsomeonefrom the ceiling rn, all that bark and no bite, it better be in the next book...can't wait <33. AND WE NEED SOME FACE SITTING!! Bye.━━━━━━━━━━━ ♡ ━━━━━━━━━━━