dnf @ 20%"What’s on your mind?" Jason drew me out of my thoughts with his soft words. He was resting his head on my stomach, his face turned toward me.━━━━━━━━━━━ ♡ ━━━━━━━━━━━I'm hesitantly stopping here. I don't feel great about dnfing an ARC, especially not one by one of my favourite authors, but hopefully I'm able to articulate my thoughts well enough, for them to still be valuable.I think my main point that I'd like to emphasise, is that unfortunately,this was too long. By the end ofLosers Ithe characters are practically all together, so when I began to notice that this sequel would hinge on the drama between Manson and his dad, I began to dread picking it up. I understand that, originally, this was only going to be one book but, because of its length, it was split in two. I believe it would have benefited from cutting some scenes, as the storyline itself could have fit comfortably into one book.I saw on Harley Laroux's instagram that she mentioned that the 3rd book in theSoul's Trilogy, Soul of a Witch,may be the longest Soul's book. This worried me, as I felt that HSTT and HSFR dragged a little at the end.I think Harley Laroux is a more than competent writer, and she's all-around great at writing the components of a great romance, but I think a bit more polishing in the future could elevate her work that much more.This detail is a little less relevant, and probably more of a personal preference, but due to the splitting of the originalLosersbook,Losers IIwas released later, around christmas/winter time, rather than halloween time. Obviously, Harley Laroux's books can be read at any time of the year, but her books have a great halloween feel to them. That paired with my desire to read something more lighthearted during christmas time also probably played into my lack of enjoyement.The length also did not reflect development, to me at least. As aforementioned the characters were enamoured and almost together by the end of the last book, so my interest in their interactions sizzled down as they began to feel repetitive but also...like they weren't going anywhere. I didn't like Manson and Lucas as much as I did in Part I, and I ended up leaning more fondly toward Jason and Vincent's friendliness and sweatheartedness.I usually love the way Harley writes sex scenes, but sadly, I didn't love these one's as much as I usually enjoy them. I'm not a prude, and was initially curious as to what HL would come up with, as obviously having 5 participants would broaden the possibilities, butI got kind of tired of the dick-sucking.This is another thing that is maybe just a personal preference/peeve, but nearly every single sex scene involved Jess (and sometimes not just Jess) having her mouth stuffed. Personally, I don't like BJ scenes in general, and the fact that I couldn't read about Jess being pleasured without her also having to pleasure someone else...I don't know, it bothered me. Clearly, I'm not articulating this very well, and it is a bit more awkward to discuss, but I just didn't rock with it. I didn't feel like the sex they were having was worshipping/loving Jess. I don't adore intense degredation in sex scenes, but I felt that HL did it tastefully inHer Soul For Revenge, where I didn't mind it. Enjoyed it, even. But I was not able to feel similarly here.If that is not something you mind, than by all means discard my opinions, as it's vastly dependent on every person's individual preferences. I don't mean to say that every sex scene, and every character's preferences have to be 'feminist', but it was so degrading toward the only female character that I myself was not able to enjoy the sex scenes.Alongside these, there were still some tender moments of adorable domesticity. I'd still like to emphasise my point that HL writes greatromance, not just erotica. There were some dynamics I liked more than others, but generally, the romantic non-sexual interactions were sweet - I liked them.Another aspect that could have contributed to my failed enjoyment, is that this book started off as a novella.The Dareis a bit of a controversial one, mainly (I think) because many readers who don't usually read dark romance gave it a go. I thought the novella was well done because served what it promised it would: smutty novella. It didn't insist that the characters be in love in the end, and it didn't delay the sex through unnecessary set-up. It absolutely ticked the box it set out to tick.However, I don't believe the set up for that novella was strong enough for HL to string along as the base for a full duet.Jessica (h)is a bit of a flimsy character. That was fine inThe Dare, as no one is really there for character development. Just for characters that fit the story. And she did, there. But not here, in my opinion.HL's heroine inHer Soul To Takewas also unimpressive for me, but in the sequel,Her Soul For Revenge, I was absolutely delighted with Juniper's character. A woman with substance, motivations, stamina and grit. While also being playful. But I liked that she engaged a lot with the mmc, biting back, taunting, initiating, leading.Obviously, not every heroine needs to be deemed a 'powerful woman', but Jess was presented as a character with little substance. She just brought up the shit she spat in high school when she was in the mood for sexual punishment, and the boys delighted in punishing her. A dynamic that I was initially open to growing fond of was ultimately not one I rooted for. Jess was treated like a literal pet, the whole time. At first, I was able to rock with the boys' caring nature toward her, but I got tired of her spineless, wide-eyed, whiney act. And this is coming from someone who is attracted to women.There's a fair bit of drug-use as well, which is maybe a touchy topic that I'm not confident in addressing. Manson smokes, as well as Lucas, I believe. Or maybe all of them? They briefly mention that they're interested in quitting but sometimes it's used for sex appeal. I'd say personally, choose one.On a side note, this cover is also one of my least favourites. It's my understanding that HL doesn't have much say in the designing, but I believe that I and many other readers prefer more descrete covers, or at least ones that leave the characters faces up to the imagination because I can assure you that one picture will not be what all readers find attractive.I hope that my review was constructive and helpful, rather than scolding or insulting. And I hope this won't get my kicked off the ARC team. Harley Laroux has many undeniable strengths, and I'm more than looking forward to her next releases. Especially her sapphic one. I messaged her privately a while ago, inquiring whether she'd ever consider writing one, and I've been struggling to contain myself since she told me she had one planned. I'm so glad she's announced it now. I'm also, of course, looking forward to the release ofSoul of a Witch, as I'm confident that Harley will do this fmc justice. (I just hope that it will not be drawn out).My favourite of Harley's work isHer Soul For Revenge, so if you're interested in HL's work but don't know where to start, the Soul's series is a great one, in my opinion. (I almost wish the sapphic romance were set in that world, imagine a female demon... but HL has said she's planning a contemporary.) I think she should consider, though, how strong her paranormal romance is, and maybe consider dabbling more in that subgenre.Thank you Harley Laroux for an ARC of this book in exchange for an honest review!━━━━━━━━━━━ ♡ ━━━━━━━━━━━