When should one break a promise? Or how far should you go to keep a promise?Most quotes will tell you that a broken promise will fracture, scar, or even cause a relationship to crumble. However, in the case of More than a Feeling, keeping promises of a dead man actually was the cause of distrust, heartbreak, and a crumbling relationship. Fleur and Callum the heroine and hero of the story were both keeping a promise for Callum’s dead brother Seamus. The promise was like a stick of dynamite. It has the potential to do great harm but as long as it is handled appropriately there should be no concerns. Unfortunately, the way Callum handled the promise to his brother was acting like a lit match to the dynamite.On Seamus’s wedding day to Sabine, the heroine’s favored sister, he asked the hero to take care of his wife if something should happen to him. Unfortunately, for Seamus he died a year into the marriage in a tragic car accident. So, Callum stepped up to be her support. Sabine played the grieving widowWhile making a play for her dead husband’s brother, the hero!It is also during this time he became closer with the heroine, and they started dating. After 8 months together, he asked Fleur to move in with him.SPOILER ALERT(This part has spoilers, but it literally happens in the first couple of pages of the first chapter.)🛑 Mild spoilers…The story starts within a few days of the heroine moving in with the hero. The hero takes the h out for her 26th birthday, but while they are out Sabine calls frantic and sad(her husband has been dead 2 years at this point) He leaves the birthday dinner to go to the sister.The h shows up at the house because the H forgot his wallet in his rush and she overhears him tell the sister that it is just sex with the hThen he tells her that the h living with him is temporary.(Yet, he is the one who insisted the h move in with him) Then, she walks in the room to hand him his wallet while he is sitting on the sister’s bed kissing her hair and stroking her back. He looks at the h regretfully, but doesn’t stop.Thank you MA for this next part….the h leaves, calls up her friends and immediately starts moving her things out(she kept her place). Most of her things were still packed. The H comes upon her and her friends packing up and actually has the gall to start berating her and trying to shift the blame onto her. He takes no responsibility for what he said or did. And that was the end of chapter 1! Phew ! That was a lot of action.I don’t want to spoil too much, so the rest of my review will be rather vague.The H grapples with what is the truth and what is fiction. Even thinking at one point that maybe he should try and make it work with the OW.This hero has some major groveling to do.There are also a few unexpected surprises(no secret babies) in the story.MA gives us another heroine who has parents that play favorites among their daughters. If you haven’t guessed, the heroine is not it.Sabine has also had lots of time to lie about the h to the hero.Now, he was with the heroine romantically for 8 months so he should have realized that things didn’t add up. However, the heroine had to keep certain things about her work life secret from the H, including how smart she is and how she earns a very good living. She also was keeping a secret for the dead brother that would have probably changed the way the H handled the sister. So, in his defense and that is the only one he is getting from me, he probably could feel that she was holding back on some things.There is no cheating. The H has never slept with the sister. The h also stays very strong in this story, so since she has an unsupportive and vindictive family, she decides to write them off. The H’s good parents are still alive so eventually they become her family unit. His parents were not Sabine fans.Overall, I enjoyed this story. The H wasn’t my favorite of Maya’s H’s, because he was so obtuse about certain things. As far as his promise to his dead brother goes….he went to extreme lengths. I’m sure his brother would have smacked him upside the head. His lying to protect the ow’s feelings in chapter 1 was hard for me to take. He had no reason to comfort her that way by saying the h was temporary and just for sex. Kissing her hair??? Please….The heroine’s promise to the brother is a little trickier. First of all it was a different kind of promise that didn’t get a chance to be revealed due to the brother’s death. Had she revealed what she had known after the brother died her family would have found a way to make her look like the bad person. Plus, the H upon learning what the revelation was, probably would have broken his own promise and left her family which means that the H and h wouldn’t have gotten together (they didn’t become a couple until over a year after the brother’s passing. ) Therefore, the promises which were the root for so many issues, were also the reason we got this story to enjoy.I received this story for free a few months ago from the author. It will be released in December. Her writing reminds me of heroes written in the past. They are usually jerks, make some really stupid choices,but once they realize they love the heroine, they will be her biggest supporter and protector.