"Without another glance, he opened up the front door and left, leaving my heart shattered in a million tiny pieces."-Balance"I do stupid things, I know I do, but when it is just us, it all makes sense."-Execution"We are a team-I exhale, you inhale."-Release"But when it came to Kova, my heart only beat for him."-Twist"There was no turmoil, no heartache, no secrets. It was just us, together, living my dream."-Dismount"We took a risk on a love that was against the odds before it started, and we were stubborn enough to win."-Out of BoundsThe Off Balance Series by Lucia Franco. I could've highlighted every dang page of this series. It had been over a year since I had read an interconnected series about the same couple. Let me tell you, it took me on an emotional roller coaster of epic proportions. I had the pleasure of meeting @lucia_franco_ at the Holidays for the Belles signing in Dallas, and my friends and I got to tell her how we all stayed up til 130 in the morning discussing this series. Our friends Meg and Maria, it's one of their favorite series of all time. But it was super fun that so many of us were reading it at the same time, and we all were at different parts.A story of Adrianna Rossi,a gymnast whose goal in life is to reach the Olympics. Her fathers llong-timefriend and gymnastics coach Kova Konstantin is an elite gymnastics coach twhospecializes in elite training to get his gymnasts to the Olympics.What they both didn't expect was to push eachothers buttons and push boundaries in more ways than one. Kova pissed me off until probably book 4. Lol Adrianna gave me anxiety the entire time. I wanted to strangle them both. But her perservance and drive to be the best was so amazing to read. I respected the hell out of her for that. And Kova was her strength and mentor in so many ways.Listen, not all love is black and white. Not every love story is what we think it should be. What society thinks it should be. Sometimes it's messy, sometimes it starts out differently than expected. But that is love. I loved Kovas love for her. It was absolutely unwavering. Lucia Franco, round of applause for you girlfriend. Absolutely incredible. #offbalance