I swear this author used to be something special and now is just getting worse. She writes weak ass FMC and overbearing misogynistic man whore zero’s who abuse the women they love and do nothing to deserve happy endings. This one was boring, predictable, repetitive, and sexist as all fuck.Natalie- FMC aka Diamond, a product of a ONS between her dad and some lady who did not want her. Her mom leaves her on her dad’s doorstep as a baby. Her dad had remarried and the evil stepmother hates her. Abused her, starved her, gave her nothing and her POS father just went right along with it. On her graduation date (which no one shows up to) she finds her boyfriend of 3 years, Chris, fucking her stepmother and records it. Walks out and goes to college.Elijah- MMC aka Piston, in line to be treasurer of his MC, brother to Acid another MC member, lived with a very abusive father who would routinely beat him and his brother then fuck women in front of them (?), specifically mentions one time when he woke up in his hospital bed after being beat only to watch his dad fucking a nurse in the corner of his room. Is a man whore and will only sleep with women ONE time until he meets Natalie in a bar and takes her home.Natalie and Piston meet in a bar in Natalie’s first year of college, they’re both in college, he’s in the MC also. Natalie goes to school and works two part time jobs. They decide to be exclusive but sex only, no feelings. When Piston graduates college, it is over.Time Jump. Two years? Three years?So, they fuck for 2-3 years straight but do not date, meet family, go anywhere together, he leaves in the middle of the night, he avoids her apartment for a week when she’s on her period and he repeatedly tells anyone and everyone although he doesn’t sleep with other people it’s just sex. The minute Natalie mentions feelings, he’ll dump her ass. Of course, Natalie is secretly in love with Piston and caught feelings. Basically, he treats her like an on-call whore. The night of Piston’s graduation they fuck one last time and he dumps her.Time Jump. Two Years.Opens to Piston watching two club whores fuck wishing he would get hard so he can fuck them both. We get his internalization of him hating Natalie because he “gave her his body” for three years only to have her fuck him over. We learn 3 weeks after graduation, Natalie told him she was pregnant. He married her but unwillingly. Then 2 months after that, she lost the baby. He insists she lied and is a lying, deceitful whore who “patch trapped him.” He watches the CW’s all the time but tells himself he is not cheating (because he cannot get fully hard, but would if he could).Natalie offered to divorce him but their club has a rule going back generations that if you marry and give your patch to someone, you must stay married for 5 years.So, for two years that they’ve been married, Piston shows up one day a month to fuck her without letting her come otherwise he doesn’t see Natalie at all. He does not talk to her, does not live with her, does not bring her to anything and does not protect her or let the club protect her. He has very small moments of guilt but keeps telling himself only 3 more years and he’ll get rid of her ass. He did buy her an apartment but doesn’t even know she doesn’t live there and doesn’t touch his money.What’s worse is when we get Natalie’s side and see that when she told Piston about the baby, he blamed her and only her like it doesn’t take two. He mentioned marriage and she SAID NO. Because of her past she’s TERRIFIED of marriage and what it represents. Like her dad letting her step mom beat his own kid because he was loyal to the woman he married and not his daughter that didn’t ask to be born. Piston then threatens her that he’ll take full custody if she doesn’t marry him. He screamed in her face that he hated her.SO HOW DID SHE TRAP HIM?!? We also learn Piston’s father is part of the rival club, the Killers. He learns Piston got married so corners Natalie, beats her and threatens her. She has a miscarriage and when she tries to call Piston, he has a club whore answer the phone and tell her he’s too busy fucking other women so answer the phone for his lying whore wife who trapped himNatalie also now has a relationship with her 8-year-old half-brother. He showed up at her place a few months ago, beaten by the evil stepmom. So now Natalie helps take care of him and threatens the step mom that if she hits him again, she’ll show the video of her ex-boyfriend and step mommy fucking to her evil dad.Yeah, it’s a stupid fucking plot. Super unbelievable too.Yes, Piston bought an apartment. Yes, he gave me his card, but I don’t want anything from him, and now, I don’t even think I want his heart anymore.At the beginning, I did, hopeful we could make things work, that I could put my fears behind me, as he forced this marriage on me, and not by his choice. If anything, though, he’s pulled further away from me. He sees me as an enemy.Gone is the carefree man who would joke and laugh with me, and in his place is a bitter man who makes me feel dirty after we have sex, rarely giving me pleasure, only thinking of himself.Why would I want to be with someone who treats me that way? A man who would dismiss you as soon as he’s pulled out and come in the condom, not trusting you not to “trap him” again?The answer is you don’t. I deserve more than what he’s given me. I deserve respect, if anything. I know my worth now. I’ve come to learn that I deserve better, and that I deserve to be loved, even if it just means by being by myself with a house full of animals, and my brother.I deserve to put myself first for once; Piston doesn’t do that. Heck, I’m his wife, his old lady, and I’m not allowed to use his given name or attend the club’s family BBQs.ALL OF A SUDDENabout 60% of the way through the book Piston hears about Natalie getting attacked by his father, AGAIN, and does a complete 180. He loves Natalie, he can’t live without her, he’s been in love with her this whole time and wanted her to have his baby and wanted her to marry him so she couldn’t escape him and that’s why they were “exclusive fuck buddies” for three years. He just has SO many demons (like she doesn’t?!?!?!) and he wants her to stay his wife. So they go on a romantic date and tell each other everything they didn’t know (mostly all their past shit like childhood trauma and why he was scared to love her and blah blah blah blah) and then yay!THIS IS SIX MOTHER FLUFFING YEARS THEY’VE BEEN TOGETHER!Of course there’s more drama, Natalie is hurt again and put in the hospital but this time she’s pregnant and doesn’t lose it…..after being in a rollover car crash, beaten, thrown off the Brooklyn Bridge yeah mmmmmk, the step mom tries killing the little brother (wtf?) the club whores try and make it seem like Piston is cheating (he’s not), the step mom tries killing Natalie (wtf?) and that quickly they are couple goals.Hugging, kissing, smooches, living together, helping raise her brother, having a baby and the world makes sense again.Even worse, the author used THIS book about another couple to VERY obviously set up the next few books because we start to hear WAY more about Acid and Perrie and Steal and Cass and all their mother-freaking drama so you want to read the next book. There’s a girl missing and a rat in the club and more and more storylines. Ugh. Well done author.I read it. I didn’t hate it. I want to read Acid’s book because I’m interested in his fuck up.