Music plays a very important part in this book, most especially to Remy and Brooke and it does have its very own playlist but I want to dedicate this song to Remy for what he did in New York and what it meant -The Last Fight by Velvet Revolver. Damn you Remy, you made me ugly cry!I’m every woman’s adventure, damn you, and I don’t want to be yours. I want to be your fucking REAL. You get that? If I fuck you, I want you to belong to me. To be mine. I want you to give yourself to me—not Riptide!”I have read and loved so very many books but, every now and then, a book comes along that stands head and shoulders above all the others, a book that simply takes your breath away, steals your ability to concentrate on anything else, a book that completely consumes you and owns you. THIS is that book. It’s such a soulful. beautiful and emotional story and even now, when I close my eyes, I’m right back with Brooke & Remy. Nothing is forgotten – this book will stay with me forever.Brooke first sees Remy at an underground boxing fight. She’s been dragged there by her best friend Mel and she’s not prepared for what is about to happen. As Remington “Riptide” Tate takes to the ring their eyes lock and something passes between them – time stands still and they share an instant and unshakable connection. At this point, just a few pages in, I knew I was going to love this book. I knew it was special and even told my friend who I was sitting next to at the time. She gave me a quizzical look and said ‘What? After just two pages?’ and I just nodded. I knew instinctively this book was going to be exceptional.Remy is a fallen boxer now competing in an underground circuit. He’s in prime physical shape – he’s pure masculinity and raw beast, sex on a stick, a six-foot-plus tower of testosterone. He’s tall, dark with piercing blue eyes – every girl’s dream and he has a reputation for going through women like a hot knife through butter. He’s a bad boy with a bad reputation. There’s a darkness within and he has an incredibly short fuse – he’s suffered so badly in his past. The people who should have been there for him and loved him have turned their back on him when he needed them most. Now, he has a small entourage of people close to him, those that he trusts and he is fiercely protective of them and is incredibly slow to trust.I don’t think it’s even possible to find the words to express just now much I loved Remy but I will try. He’s an absolute tower of physical strength but inside he’s deeply flawed and is incredibly vulnerable and so unbelievably complex. Experience has taught him to observe, to hold back and to say very little but that steely blue gaze is incredibly expressive and conveys more than he could ever put into words. Despite his obvious powerful physical strength, there’s a vulnerability in there that is so mesmerising and brings out all my protective instincts – I wanted to run my hand down his face, rub my thumb across his bottom lip and tell him that it’s all going to be OK. He wants Brooke with a passion but knows he needs to hold back – he’s so incredibly intense that it’s going to be all or nothing and he needs her to learn about his ‘darkness’ before he can let herself go and allow him to take her.“When I take you, you’ll be mine,” he says, a soft promise in my ear. He slides his thumb along my jaw, then gently kisses my earlobe. “You need to be certain.”As a man of very few words, he uses songs to tell Brooke how he is feeling by playing her songs on her iPod so she can listen to the lyrics. I loved how Katy Evans did this, how carefully she chose her songs and, as the book progressed, the songs they chose for each other made my eyes shimmer with unshed tears. I was losing it and fast. This is the song that Remy chooses for Brooke - Iris by The Goo Goo Dolls.And I’d give up forever to touch you …Cause I know that you feel me somehow…You’re the closest to heaven that I’ve ever been and I don’t want to go home right now…“I want to say so many things, Brooke, and I just can’t find the words to tell them to you.”He sets his forehead on mine and inhales deeply. Slowly, still breathing me in, he drags his nose along the length of mine.“You tie me up in knots.” He presses my mouth with his. Briefly. Then he withdraws, breathing hard, and looks at me with heavy-lidded eyes. “I want to play you a thousand different songs so you get a clue of what … I feel inside me…”I also completely adored Brooke. She’s had her hopes and dreams shattered at a young age and is now trying to carve out a new path for herself. She’s a tower of strength to Remy, represents everything he thinks he is not good enough for but she is, beyond a shadow of a doubt, falling irrevocably in love with Remy but she doesn’t understand what he is hiding from her and why is he is holding back. When she does eventually discover his secret, she chose to stand by her man through thick and thin whatever the future may bring and I loved her for it. Remy may be the epitome of a hard, tough masculine physique but the emotional strength and fortitude lies with Brooke. Remy needs her and will never be able to let her go.“I’m so fucking in love with you I don’t even know what to do with myself anymore.”As Remy continues to hold back and Brooke practically melts with desire and unsatisfied arousal, the sexual tension between the two of them built to such an incredible intensity that I was so unbelievably turned on and desperate for them to make good on all this pent up emotion. When they do finally come together it was everything and more that I hoped it would be. The sex is very hot and the scenes beautifully erotic but what makes this extra special is the emotion in those scenes is powerfully palpable and leaps right off the page. You know just how much this means to them and, now that they’re together, I began to fear what was ahead and what was likely to tear them apart and I couldn’t bear the thought of that – I knew how much it would hurt Remy and I cared so much about him by this time and my heart was breaking for him.As the events of the final few chapters unfolded and I realised what Remy had done and why, my eyes once again started to fill with tears and by the time we got to the last few pages, I was all out sobbing, ugly crying. A book hasn’t made me cry like that in ages – it’s so incredibly emotional, so soulful, so heartfelt. The writing is sublime – I was right there with the characters in every single scene, I could see everything, especially the pulsating energy of the fight scenes and the raucous crowds. Most of all I could see Remy – he lived vividly in my imagination, he was REAL to me. There’s a scene when Brooke climbs into the shower with him and, of all the scenes in the book, this one lived the most vividly in my imagination – not really sure why but it seemed so incredibly intense and emotional.I open the glass shower door, and step inside with his beautiful slick skin and big hard muscles, pressing my naked breasts to his back as I wrap my arms around his waist. He groans and tugs my arms tighter around him, and the words I love you are there inside me. I've never loved anyone in my life and I never imagined it could be like this.This is just about the perfect book for me – it has just exact right mix of eroticism and emotion and it’s beautifully paced. I loved the way Remy’s eyes would slide to Brooke just before a fight, the way he would stare at her trying to read her, the way they shared songs to say what they could not put into words – I loved everything. The anticipation of them finally getting together was frying my brain and I could not put this book down and I read deep into the wee small hours to finish it with a pair of headphones on and sobbing away! It’s beautiful, soulful, compelling, powerful and quite simply just exquisite.As I look back on my reading experience with this book and think about how it made me feel, I know that I have been in the presence of greatness.There’s now a piece of my heart that will forever belong to Remington ‘Riptide’ Tate.5 incredible starsFor more reviews, please visitSinfully Sexy Book Reviewsor visit us onFacebook.