***1 shockingly disapointing star***I don't even know where to begin. I think the reason my disappointment was so great, was because I loved the first two episodes. I was expecting the same quality of work from the third.The beginning wasn't bad. Actually, it was great. It had the same vibe as the first two installments - plenty of dirty talk and witty remarks. I was having a blast, until I hit 15-or-so% mark, and started to pay attention to the background story. It turned out my enjoinment was short lived. I soon realized that it was a complete and utter mess.I loved Andrew/Liam in the first two books, and I thought Aubrey was all right character too. Little did I know, that when the shit will hit the fan, none of them will be able to handle it.* * *WARNING SPOILERS* * *Here are the issues that led me to 1-star-ing this last book:1. A heroine with a zero self-respect.At the end of the previous episode, he told her:"Make sure you get all of your shit out of my bathroom. You won't be coming back here again.I was sure that in this installment, he will be walking through hell and high water, trying to get her back. That didn't happen.“I told you that I loved you…” The words rushed out of my mouth.“I told you that you shouldn’t have.”“You can’t really be this callous and cold of a person, Andrew…”She's not even asking for the reason why he kicked her out after fucking her. She thinks that just because she told him she loved him, he suppose to be a done deal. Desperate and whiny chicks are extremely unattractive.2. A heroine who thinks she's a fucking center of the universe and everyone owes her special favors.Here is the quote from the scene where she was late to the audition at New York Fucking City Ballet Company. The most prestige ballet company in a world. Every little ballerina dreams of dancing with them when they grow up. However, this one thinks she's speshuuul and is entitled to shit.“Good morning, Mr. Ashcroft. My name is Aubrey Everhart and I’m—”“Late.” He cut me off. “You’re also the only performer who isn’t wearing the mandatory white.”“Yes, well…” I stammered. “That’s why I want to speak with you.”“Oh?”“I want to know if you would allow me to go home and change.”“And why would I allow that, Miss Everhart?”“So I can audition with the group this afternoon and be judged fairly. I just think that I’ve already—”And that's not all. She didn't get to go home and change, and she did had a shitty audition - didn't make the cut. But the fucking entitled little thing that she is, didn't gave up.“Enraged, I marched up the stage’s steps and took a seat on the white line. I untied my right slipper and prepared another one—bending it forward and backward until it felt right. (...)“I walked over to the pianist. “Tchaikovsky, Swan Lake. Act two, scene fourteen. Do you know that piece?”“Umm…” He looked confused.“Do you know it or not?” (...)“Before I knew it, I was in a trance and I was dancing in the middle of Times Square, underneath flashing lights and a star-filled sky.I continued dancing long after the last note,”I would've called an ambulance on this auditionee. Is she crazy or what?It reminded me a lot of the bad American Idol and The X Factor auditions, when the judges start waving their arms and legs, trying to stop the horse-like singing, calling for the security to escort the person out, and the person just refuse to take a no for an answer and keeps singing.But it is a fictional story, disappointingly, they overlooked her craziness and hired her. I don't think they realized that they will be over their heads with this so-called star. Later in the story, this happened:“In the final frame, where the love of my life vows to die with me instead of honoring his mistaken promise to the black swan, I can’t help but deviate from the choreography.Instead of taking his hand and letting him lead me into the “water,” I leapt into his arms—letting him hold me high for all the other swans to see.”I'm lost for words. I have no fucking clue how she managed to leap into his arms without rehearsing it first! I imagined her jumping and flying into his arms, him looking puzzled at her flying through the air, and her landing face first on the floor. How he read her mind in that split second is still a mystery to me.Then there is the fact that every time she preformed, audience applauded only her, the crowd went fucking wild, not for the other dancers. For instance:“One by one, the dancers came out—reciting a short monologue and dancing to a short piece of piano music. While most of the performers were entertaining, a few of them made me wonder if they’d simply awoken this morning and decided try ballet for the first time.In between the sets, I could hear a few murmurs from the crowd: “Are they sure this is their best cohort?” “Maybe they should’ve canceled the season after that accident…” “Hopefully, they’ll be having nonstop rehearsals until the season actually begins…”This, my friends, is the prestige company of NY City ballet! Dancers dancing like they just woken up and are trying ballet for the first time. But don't worry, the day was saved by:“Aubrey shut her eyes and started her routine, dancing as if she was the only person here.There was an immediate change in the gala’s atmosphere. Everyone watching her was fully engaged—captivated, by her every move.”See!?3. From loving to hating Andrew/Liam.After I finished the book, I realized that the dude is tolerable only in small doses. I enjoyed reading about him treating everyone like shit, but not more than 60 pages per installment. 140 pages of it drove me to the brick of insanity.Remember him telling her to fuck off because he didn't do relationships? For some reason, I thought he will cut his bullshit and try to win his way back. He did, by sending her harassing emails. Why? Because chicks dig that!"Subject: Thoreau & Alyssa.You once said that you missed when we were Thoreau and Alyssa because I supposedly treated you better. I don’t think I treated you any differently. I just really wanted to fuck you. But when we did meet in person, I unfortunately wanted to fuck you even more.I personally prefer us as “Andrew & Aubrey” because on a night like tonight, when there’s nothing I would rather do than fuck you against my balcony until you cum, at least I can actually picture what your pussy feels like and no longer have to imagine.Pick up the phone…—Andrew”***Even though the last two words of your resignation letter were ridiculous and unprofessional, I’d like to take you up on your offer to fuck you.Name the time.—Andrew.Subject: My Suit.Since you have yet to pick up your final check, should I assume that’s your way of letting me keep it to replace the suit you ruined?—Andrew.Subject: BALLET.I stopped by your dance hall earlier. You weren’t there.Did you quit that, too?—Andrew.”Now, in some weird way, it does look like he's trying to reconnect with her. But every time she shows up in his office, answers his emails or calls, he continues to treat her like shit and gives her responses among the lines of "Is that all? Now fuck off, you liar. Oh, and I missed the taste of your pussy." Then he proceeds with harassing her with inappropriate emails, messages, calls and even visits. What the goddamn fuck is this bullshit?Rather than ignoring his bullcrap and giving him time to reflect over his actions, letting him come to his senses, she participates in it and keeps feeding the monster with "Leave me alone. Don't contact me anymore. If you had really missed my pussy you would..." All throughout the fucking book.Then, be still my heart, comes the long awaited apology, for treating her like shit. He did not said the words himself, no, he went for the "better" option:“Opening the doors, I noticed everything was set up exactly as I asked: A lone white clothed table sat in front of a dancing fire, soft lights hung in waves across the trellis, and through the falling snow, the words “I’m sorry” twinkled against the building directly across from us.””Totally what I expected a guy like him would do, "I'm sorry" twinkling against the building. NOT!4. While we're on the subject of character inconsistencies and things that make no sense, let's talk about the background story. Which was not only all over the place, took too much space than it should've (or not enough in some scenes), was rushed and very poorly researched as well.“Miss Everhart—” I cleared my throat. “I mean, Miss Everly, do you believe that leaving your husband in his time of need was what was best for your company?”***“Mr. Hamilton, you and your company led your employees to believe that you cared about them, that you had their best interests at heart, and that you would literally communicate the actual changes you would make before termination. Are those promises not directly from your company’s brochure?”It seems that all the evidence are based on feelings of the offended party, or what a fucking brochure said, rather than the law and hard evidence.To me, it felt like a lot of the court procedure scenes were thrown solely for the story to sound more dramatic, and were used just to talk smack about the other main character. Which not only made that character to lose the appeal, it made the story very Spanish telenovela-like. The drama in those scenes was beyond unrealistic. The questions that were asked were completely irrelevant to the cases and the behavior of people involved were beyond juvenile. Keep in mind that Andrew had never lost a case, because he's the shark, the shit, the best lawyer there is. How he has never lost a case behaving like this, is beyond my apprehension. I got the impression that the "research" was done buy watching TV shows rather than going to the legitimate sources.“Is it possible that you’re a fucking liar?”“Order! Order!” The judge banged her gavel and the jury gasped.“Counsel, my chambers. NOW!”If you decide to use that much of the digital space of your book on the subject, try make it sound at least a little bit realistic. In what court in a world would a judge start banging with his gavel shouting "My chambers!" without previous warnings? In a TV show, that's where!Then there is the fact that every time there was a show, the performers had to present themselves, hold a little speech, then afterwards, mingle with the crowd begging for donations. Does that sound like a brothel or a strip club, or what? Director kept interrupting the show to announce some shit or other. I don't know if any of you ever been at ballet show, but from my experience, directors don't pimp their shows out every five minutes into the performance and announce that after the show, the dancers will be blending into the crowd to introduce themselves, so audience can get to know them. The likelihood of well know dance company as NY City Ballet doing that, is even less likely.In this story, the line between fiction and a complete bullshit is very thin, and in a lot of the scenes, non existing.5. The author's need to explain basics, because readers are that dumb.“The orchestra struck a sudden loud chord that reverberated through the room, and a voice came over the speakers.“Ladies and gentlemen,” it said. “The Benjamin Wright Orchestra will now play their rendition of one of Tchaikovsky’s most revered pieces. The tempo of this song has a similar pacing for what some of you may know as the waltz.”I've never been at the ballet show where someone interrupted to announce something or other, or to explain anything. I bought the ticked, found the brochure to fallow the program, and enjoyed the dance. What the hell is this nonsense? It happened every time she preformed!“Out of nowhere, a male dancer joined her, picking her up and holding her high above his head—spinning her around as the music became harsher.I don't think he came out of nowhere, I'm pretty sure it was planned and rehearsed a thousand times. Plus, I would've loved if the author had called it "présage", rather than going into juvenile description of the movement. But whatever.Bottom line: the only 140+ pages story had way too much going on. First you have the rocky and endless back and forward drama type of relationship of the two main characters. Which doesn't resolve until 99% into the story (I shit you not! She dumps him couple of pages before the end, and then takes him back again!). Then you have the relationship and the drama/struggles between our heroine and her new boyfriend. Than there is a nagging ex wife and the bickering between her and him, random, and IMO irrelevant and unnecessary, court procedures, a greave of a dead daughter that isn't a daughter, poor attempted at the dance career with countless auditions, training sessions and performances, a bankrupt firm and change of an identity. Then, on the first page of the prologue, I read "Good morning professor Hamilton." Are you fucking kidding me?This book was nothing what I expected to be. I'm still shocked that I disliked it as much as I did.