Meh!Rejection, cheating, public humiliation - for a year and then voila, all is forgiven and forgotten.Just like that?All's well cuz we are fighting magic-fueled rogues!?Rejected mates romance is enticing because of the extra/easy scope for aaangst!But not when rejection and then capitulation happen so easily and unemotionally. And senselessly.His reasons for rejecting? Again formulaic - his parents had a bad marriage, and then his mentor found his true mate and upped and vanished without an explanation. So, this mate business is all things bad. Truly boo hoo!“She was his mate. The only problem was that Jack didn’t want a mate.”The mmc is new to the pack. He joined one year ago. They recognize each other but the he manages to avoid her - and a conversation forone whole year!“For the last year, anytime Jack ran into Grace her whole face lit up. She was always eager to speak to him. It was what made hiding from her so hard.And as per rejected-mate-story norm her pack already hates her for a reason or another (She's not runty but. Long story - her mother dumped her wolfie-mate for her true love, a human. So, her mom and now she's hated and targeted) and helps the mmc avoid her.“Jack had only lived in Black Bird for a year, but somehow he had gained more loyalty from the town than Grace ever had. And Grace had lived here her whole life! Yet she was a second class citizen.”“Somehow, Jack Taylor had roped the whole town into helping him avoid Grace. Not that he had done it knowingly. They’d helped him without being asked.”Not just that, some are mean enough to make sure she knows of the 'women he occasionally takes home'.Finally, one day she realizes that she needs to get a life. Although her way of getting a life is weird. She gives up her apartment in town and shifts to her parents' old run down cabin far from civilization. (And her alpha (a good guy) allows her when they have a rogue problem?)Her plans? She'll renovate the place and take some online courses.“What’s going on with you?” He finally asked.“I’m taking charge of my life. I’m tired of waiting for things to happen. It is way past time I started living.” Grace’s voice was filled with yearning. Jack felt his stomach clench at the raw”The ass still is an ass. And tries gaslighting.“Let’s be honest. Something terrible will happen to you before you get the chance to learn how to protect yourself and the rest of us will be left to feel guilty because we didn’t stop your reckless behavior. All because of your wounded pride.”Anyways, predictably, he starts missing what is missing. That is the fmc chasing him all over the place.The rogues start doing their thing, some alarming incidents later, they get together.We have another fmc's easy capitulation and rushing to share blame --“I should have spent this last year getting to know Jack not just blindly chasing him around town.”Seriously??!At least, her bff sees it how it is. --“You can only get to know a man if he talks to you,” Anne was quick to point out.His grovel? Non-existent.So, instead of a starting with an apology --“A single apology is not going to erase a year of willful ignorance. It’s going to take a lot of time and frankly,” he looked up his eyes burning with earnest yearning, “I want to start fixing things as soon as possible.”And his cheating or ghosting her, humiliating her along with the rest of the town is not even on the table.His way of fixing things - sex asap. Who cares if she has a few broken ribs?The magic-spelled rogue thing is bit ott and eye rolling.The town supposedly hates her but most of the characters we meet - the Alpha, his gf, the enforcers and others are actually nice to her.And I liked few characters in the story - the other couples who'll probably get a book too.I'd like to know how her bff, Annie's and the Alpha's romance will go. They are not mates but are living together. Annie is scared of when and if his true mate makes an appearance.Book #2 has a menage story - another pair of mmcs who ghosted the fmc.Also, this fated mate thing.If anyone should have been leery , it should have been the fmc - because her own mother found true love outside of the mate bond. Instead, she has spent past few years waiting and mooning over her fated mate.