The reason this has 3 stars and not 1 star is that the author is really good at writing scenes. Franco can write some serious tension and is currently queen of "Show don't tell." I am entranced with her descriptions and ability to invoke emotion. It's inspiring.However, the plot is pissing me off a little.I hate, hate, hate books that can't find a plot point and stick with it. I hate when books add random fluff that is not consistent with the characters or the story. I hate random things added that just add drama for the sake of drama. I feel this story could have been finished with three books and instead it's being dragged across five. There is also serious lack of consistency and random character and environment changes that just irritate me.Do not continue if you don't want SPOILERS1) Avery and Ria's brother's relationship. This adds nothing to the story, I vented about it in my review of book two. And I still think Ria is a bitch that abandoned her friend for selfish reasons.2) The "mom" isn't a "mom" thing. This was out of no where and there was nothing wrong with having a "mommy dearest" mom. Why throw in this randomness?3)The Real mom is out of the picture... oh wait.. no she isn't, She's still hanging out with the dad apparently often. Why? Why is this in here? It feels like lazy writing. It was super convenient to have her there to explain that her sister died of the complications Ria is having. Lazy Writing.4) Katja was once in love with Kova. In the first book she acts like a woman that wants to spend more time with her boyfriend. She feels she is second (and she was). Her boyfriend was an ass and throws things in her face like "I work so you can shop." (Jackass). And Katja later in the stories does things to try to connect with Kova. Kova even admits wanting to want her more. Katja seems almost desperate in some scenes where she is trying to "please him" and connect with him. And suddenly, randomly, Katja is now a bitch who can't remember his birthday? Not just after he's been unfaithful to her (I'm guessing she knows) as a big "Fuck you" to Kova. She's missed his birthday like his WHOLE life after they grew up together and are as close as they supposedly are. No...….. we can't just change characters. Either Kova is a selfish prick with no self control actively participating in an illicit affair or this doesn't work. He can't suddenly be a victim with no choices and suddenly have a manipulative girlfriend out of no where. Write the story you started, don't change it mid way to add drama.5) Hayden (and how dare you fuck with my Hayden) is suddenly a drug dealer and *gasp* had sex before! Why was this in here? And we all know Kova will find out in the next two books and the soap opera continues.6) Reagan is suddenly a drug addict and also knows about Kova and Ria... but for no real reason.7) Kata apparently knowing about Ria and Kova. It's obvious in the way she acts in the book and things we here her and Kova say in private. This is also just drama for drama.8) Holly is the reason there is a no dating rule. We find out Kova helped her with something. Hayden knows about it. They at one point lived with Kova…. and now it's hinting that Holly was in some sort of relationship with pedo, spittle coach from the past. What?! Why is this even here?9) Kova being forced to marry Katja because Joy found out about the relationship. OK. So not only does this not fit with Kova's "fuck you" character and Katja's innocent love character, it also doesn't make sense time line wise. Joy was suspicious until she saw Ria's phone. And when she saw Ria's phone... Katja and Kova had apparently already married. So...…. how did Joy force this marriage without evidence other than "found a jacket that belonged to Kova at my house." Seriously, this whole thing doesn't make sense from story point or character points. And what woman raises a kid as her own and then spends her entire adult life trying to make that kid miserable? This is just ridiculously extreme. And to top all this off, Kova wants to tell this to Ria from start of the book and when she's finally listening he basically says "your mom is a bitch" and that's it? The only reason Kova didn't give it to Ria is straight is simply BAD WRITING. In any real situation where a guy is begging for a chance to explain and gets that chance to explain and then doesn't and instead gets all mysterious and alludes to something... that's just bad writing. A cliffhanger so we all go and get the next book.Can we pick a plot and stick with it? Instead of all these random little useless side plots? I'm cool with Ria's illicit affair and having Hayden stand by her and even it ending with her dying (or probably Kova giving her a Kidney or something selfless... w/e). But all these little side drama's are annoying and pointless. I don't care. And Ria is not such a victim and Kova is not "tied hands" and innocent. Also, don't tear down characters to make them evil to victimize the main ones. It's ok if we HATE the main characters. I think that's stronger writing. There is so much in this book trying to justify and make it ok that Kova and Ria are together. It's almost arguing that Statutory Rape is FINE as long as...… "insert reasons." Look, I'm obviously fucked up because I read the description and was like "Sign me up!" But I KNOW that statutory rape is wrong and you CAN'T justify it. This story NEEDS to allow Kova be the bad guy and WRONG, or else it's condoning and even justifying so many girls that have been taken advantage of. I don't mind reading books with very questionable alpha's and very questionable scenes, but I want my book to have the man grovel for it or for everyone to know it WASN'T ok. OR else we are just promoting rape and in the environment of #MeToo and how many women come forward and are ignored... can we not justify it? At first Kova knew this was wrong. And Hayden pointing out how it was wrong and slugging Kova (Seriously.... Hayden FTW) was a GOOD thing in this book. And then we have a scene where Hayden essentially tells Ria he suddenly gets why Kova is taking advantage of her. That is, in fact, Ria's fault. NO. BAD. BAD BOOK.Honestly, the descriptions, scene creations, interactions, and emotions is amazingly written. It's just the fluffy plot and even a weak predictable plot line that's driving me insane. I can even let the fact that we keep justifying the underage thing (seriously... I need to turn in my feminist card). I once read a book that needed more calledUnforgettable Lola. This was a "rough draft" book IMO. It needed more and the writing really needed an editor. But I felt the plot was so intriguing and unique. If you could take Franco's amazing detailed writing and ability to "show don't tell" it like a god damn champ and give Franco a unique idea and a strict outline of plot point "A" to end, I feel like we could be looking at something epic. But when you take someone who can write a sex scene or a gymnastic meet like a GOD and then give them the plot of a horrible day time TV soap opera we get this mess.Of course I'll read book four. The sex scenes are the best ones I have ever read. But I almost don't care about the story at this point.