I found this book doing the one thing you're not suppose to do with books, I was judging by the cover.I was hungry for a shameless-tear-jurking-romance novel, the story line looked right up my alley, the writer was well known and celebrated for being talented, and the cover art was pleasant. Being a big fan of Nicholas Sparks I am a seasoned veteran in wading through cliché girly mush that would make normal people vomit (and love every minute of it) Sparks novel's reduced me to sobbing quietly in my room over the last pages by the glow of the lamp on my nightstand, and always led to a little bit of emotional devastation at the hands of a paperback for a few weeks afterwards, but this book actually hurt me, and not in the good heartache way you want a novel like this to, it hurt me because of the many brain cells I lost to this mind numbing horrible novel.I bought his book used on Amazon for a penny, and I want my penny back.ATTNETION SPOILERS WILL TAKE PLACE FROM HERE FORWARD:First of all, the story about a girl rushing to the side of her sick grandmother who raised her, is a little cheap in my mind, but whatever, I can roll with it. What made me laugh throughout the story was that after Jennifer meets her little boyfriend, notice how many times she goes and sees her grandmother? Like, a handful. Maybe. That's fine, Granny the ill woman who raised you is just rotting on her death bed in a hospital, by all means go have some fun with your boyfriend. She'll wait. DUMB.Two: The idea of a childhood friend who she rekindles a love with, again, cheap story line that is WAAAAY over done, but okay, I can deal with it. But the idea that through this love that they share, that he would just get up and leave in the middle of the night to never be found again, only to learn that he has a rare brain cancer that is taking his life and that he doesn't want the even rarer brain surgery that could save him, and he vanishes out of thin air because he loves her too much to hurt her, made me want to hurl this book out my bedroom window like that scene from Silver Linings Playbook, because its so dumb. This is the same twisted logic men have been using on women to abandon them and still look like the good guy. "I left you high and dry because I was afraid of what I was feeling" No you're a self centered jerk. Please ladies, don't by this crap. If a man really wants to be with you, he'll be with you, hell or high water. Noah wrote Ali 365 letters, this dude can't even stick a post it on the door saying bye? The fact that Jennifer went rushing to his side, let alone even gave this douche the time of day after that makes her a doormat of a girlfriend, and if there is one thing I cannot stand is weak, spineless women in a story. Ugh.And the Cancer card is over played. Did James Patterson have even one half original thought while writing this book? Cause I wasn't able to locate a single one.Three: Possibly my biggest problem with the entire book, DID ANYONE ELSE READ THE PART ABOUT HIM GIVING HER CAT CPR?! Did anyone else laugh actually audibly out loud like I did?"Oh, you're cat electrocuted itself by chewing on some wires and has been lying here dead for only God knows how long, but let me wrap my mouth around his nose and blow and press on his side and BAM magic, cat is alive."SMDH.Just bad writing, as bad and awful as I've ever seen. The publishing company should be ashamed that they allowed that in print.Blah Blah Blah, she talks him into getting the surgery (surprise) He lives (Damn it) they go on to happy ever after. Granny dies (probably cause you left her high and dry in the hospital you selfish person you) and whaddya know at the end of it all she announces she pregnant and there naming it after the Grandma (who had an affair on her husband, btw, best role model ever) and everyone cheers and happy days ensue.But you know, out of all the awful that this book is, I am thankful for it for one thing, I now I have something to stoke my fireplace with on snowy winter days.I sincerely hope Mr. Patterson's thriller/mystery stories are better than his love stories, because if they're not I'm quitting my job today, running off to New York and becoming a writer, because any half baked idea I write in my sleep will be better than this.I still want my penny back.