Definite minor, possible major, spoilers -untagged-Vasic is an Arrow. Trained from a very young age(just four) to withstand the most grueling physical torture, the worst mental conditions, Vasic is now a man raised in pain and Silence. And then his new assignement comes. He and his men are to protect the newly awakened Es as they train to reach their potential and hopefully save the PsyNet from the corruption that's been steadily driving the Psy race first to madness and then to death. Ivy Jane is the E assigned to him and the one person who could ever possibly help him heal. Ivy never managed to become Silent, too much of an Empath to ever truly lose all emotion. Now that the Silence has finally fallen she is ready to fight for her right to live among the rest of her race and fight for the Arrow surrounded by Ice that has managed to steal her heart.We first get a glimpse of how the Arrows think and work inCaressed By Icebut Judd Lauren had always been different from the other members of the squad because he had a special bond with his family, something the rest of the squad lacks since their loyalty lies wholly with their brothers in arms. Now our hero is Vasic, another member of the team and we get to see the inner workings of the group since Vasic is still one of them and a good example of how they work.Vasic was a heart-breaking character. Although he is supposed to be Silent still because all Arrows need the Silence to harness their deadly psychic gifts, I don't think a person can carry so much guilt if he has no emotions. Vasic is an honorable man, a man who was willing to do things that went against his nature, become an assassin, for a cause he thought was worthy.The cause for which he fought, for which all the Arrows fought, all these years proved to be false, instead of fighting for his race as he'd thought, he'd been fighting to the advantage of one man, someone he trusted with his life and his skills, someone who betrayed him. Now all the guilt over the crimes he commited is catching up with him and leaving him crippled and self-distractive. The only thing that kept him from going over the edge most of the time was the loyalty of another man, a brother in all ways but biological but in the end even he didn't manage to keep him from falling. But now he has Ivy, his strong, determined Empath to fight for him and he isn't prepared to stop fighting for her yet.“I won’t forgive you,” his partner said into the quiet. “Don’t ask it.”Vasic accepted that. In volunteering for the gauntlet, he’d broken the trust formed between them when they’d been two scared boys who had no one else to turn to, a trust of brotherhood that said they’d fight together to the end. “I was weak,” he said. “I’ll be strong now.”Aden didn’t look at him. “If you were weak, you’d have killed yourself years ago. It’s your strength that doomed you—and your loyalty.” Aden clenched his jaw so tight, the bone pushed white against his skin. “Take your chance at happiness, Vasic. Be with Ivy. It’s little enough recompense for the lives you’ve saved.”“And the lives I’ve taken?”“You gave yourself a death sentence.”Ivy Jane didn't know what an Empath was until Vasic appeared at her house with an offer for her but she was one of the lucky ones. Her family's loyalty lead them to protect her from the rest of her race who would have destroyed her mind over her lack of Silence so unlike the rest of the Psy she was raised in a place where fractured Silence wasn't punished but protected. Now she has a new purpose in her life. She knows what she is, she can fight for her right to existence as well as the rest of the Es in the Net because the PsyNet needs them if it is to survive. She also has a man to save from the abyss he is about to fall into and she is up the task.The romance story between Ivy and Vasic takes some time to built although the attraction to one another is there from the beginning. The natural attraction of people to the Empaths affects Vasic from the beginning and he keeps coming closer and closer to Ivy until their relationship is unavoidable.There are some "I don't deserves you"s and some "I'm a killer, you can do better"s but it is so nicely given by the author that I just wanted to hug the hero and tell him everything is gonna be okay instead of my usual "get over it already" attitude. The story is sweet and very believable and I thought that Ivy and Vasic were a well suited couple. All her life and vibrance complimenting his icy exterior and more somber attitude.As usual with NS's books we also got to see a lot of the previous main characters as well. Mostly this book concentrated on Kaleb and Sahara and a little on Sascha and Lucas. We see how Kaleb and Sahara work together after their bonding and it was just as perfect as the rest of the book. Kaleb is still a ruthless man and Sahara is still the one person that can have a positive influence on him.Kaleb’s hands on her hips, his thumbs brushing over her skin after he nudged up her knit top as he had a way of doing. “Good governance,” he said, “is acting for your people rather than for your own gain.”Her fingers stilled on his tie. “Yes,” she whispered to the man she adored, a man who’d been brutally scarred by “leaders” acting for their own selfish interest.“That is your definition.” His fingers squeezed her hips. “Mine is to do nothing that would make you ashamed to be mine.”Sometimes, he broke her heart. “Never will I be ashamed to be yours.”This was one of the most beautiful moments in the book.The general plot, outside of romance, is as good as we've come to ecpect from NS. The Psy race is in confusion and fear of the change brought by the fall of Silence, something that isn't helped by the madness that's been brought by the infection in the PsyNet. When people start going crazy and dying some Psy think that the fall of Silence led them to this and try to go back to what they knew. But Kaleb Krychek isn't about to allow his people to return to the twisted state that brought all this on them in the first place. Without someone else to blame the Es become a target for their fear and prejudice, the unknown always the easiest thing to reject. So the Arrows don't have just the illness in the Net to fight but they have to protect their charges every minute of every day by bigots that are ready to take them down.Another enemy is former councilor Ming LeBon who isn't about to admit defeat and let his most valuable asset get away. He wants Vasic as he is unique in his abilities and he is determined to get him. To be honest I thought that this was way too easily "solved". Not that Ming is dead yet but I have a feeling this won't be the case for long.I can't wait to see what will happen next. I hope the next book is on Aden because I'm way too curius of his abilities that seem to be out of the ordinary and I have a feeling we will be seeing more of the Forgotten in the next book. Maybe a Forgotten heroine? Pretty please? Just a year to go...