Sleighedwas another delightful collection of holiday romance stories from this author duo.Overall average rating — 3.5 StarsGet Sleighed— 3.5 StarsWhen Sarah McGraw's ex dumped her right before Christmas, she's left with the all-expense paid trip for two to Cabo and no one to go with. After her best friend talks her into giving away the other half of the trip as a contest prize on her show, Sarah meets the winner at the airport only to find out Kelly Fugger is a man and not the woman Sarah was expecting. This story was a ton of fun and I really enjoyed the premise of the winner being a guy instead. This one had a lot of dirty puns and such due to Kelly's profession and I enjoyed those. Kelly's dry sense of humor didn't fully work for me but overall this was a cute read.Lights out Love— 4 StarsCole moved to the neighborhood he did because it was quiet and wasn't busy. What he didn't know what that he moved across the street from a woman with one of the largest Christmas displays around. When the power goes out, Josie offers Cole to share her generator but that's not all they'll share. The grumpy/sunshine trope is one I really enjoy so I was looking forward to this story as it has elements of that. I ended up liking this story a lot and loved the connection that developed between Josie and Cole. I liked how she got him to open up and stop hiding from the world. Overall this was a really fun story and I would definitely recommend it.Hot Item— 3 StarsHolly Gallagher has every intention of getting her son the one toy he wants for Christmas but when a stranger grabs the last one from the shelf right in front of her, her hopes are dashed. After the manager comes up with a contest for the two to see who gets the toy, Holly is determined to beat Bryce Holloway but as she spends time with him, the toy now isn't the only thing she wants. This was cute although definitely my least favorite story in the collection. I enjoyed the banter and such between Holly and Bryce but I had a hard time believing there was anything more than that between them. If the story had been longer I likely would have enjoyed it more than I did.