I will say, when I saw the rating for this book, I had such high hopes. 4.2 stars? Wow! Must be amazing, right? No.So, why did I choose to give 2 stars? Well, let's go with, the book could've been so much better if someone else wrote it who put the time to actually develop the characters and their connections with each other.Spoilers ahead!!!!I grew up loving Peter pan and believing in fairies and building little rock houses for them and clothes. I wanted so badly for Peter pan to fly through my window and take me away to Neverland to play with pixie dust and fight pirates. And this book? Nope. Maybe we will see this in the second book, but this isn't the reason for my 2 star rating. This is just me talking about my initial expectations.But the reason I gave this book 2 stars is because it LACKS. The characters lack so much depth to them including Winnie besides she is a prostitute because of her mother's lack of mothering. So, Winnie gets taken to Neverland because they need to go through her memories to find where Wendy Darling had hidden Peter Pan's shadow because it has become his life source for survival.When we get into the story, immediately we are thrown into a reverse harem. Do I love reverse harem? Oh absolutely enjoy it, but when it is done RIGHT.These lost boys and Peter Pan all keep saying "This girl seems different. She might save Peter," All because she isn't crying 24/7 like the rest of the Darlings from before. So, just because she throws in some humor, that somehow makes her be the Darling that would be the key to finding his shadow?NO. That's no reason for her to be "different" or any more helpful than the rest. And continuing. None of the Lost boys are allowed to have sex with any of the Darlings. So what, she asks one to climb in her bed like many before... and none of them have ever affected them, but her doing the BARE minimum causes them all to break the rule? She makes suggestive eyes and bats her eyelashes and that causes them all to crumble and break the rules that they have placed for so many years? NO. GIVE ME MORE. GOD that was so lacking.At first, they said that Winnie was so irresistible because they weren't allowed to touch her and because the other girls on the island including the previous Darlings were SO easy to get; that there was no challenge. Then can you explain Winnie? She literally wasn't a challenge. She just gave her body to them like the rest of the girls on the island. SO WHAT exactly would be their reason to break their rules? Nothing, besides a lack of development in the story.Continuing further, Winnie has given the boys no reason to be so entranced by her besides that she is slutty, but there is no connection. She forms absolutely 0 emotional connection with these boys and they are already all ready to risk it all for her?Winnie goes drinking and starts seducing a red-headed lost boy. And all of a sudden, with no development in Peter Pan's feelings for her, he out of nowhere becomes irritably jealous and kills the red-headed lost boy. There was no reason for his jealously. There was no attachment he even had for Winnie to cause this conflict in his emotions for what he was seeing. Winnie and Peter Pan never formed any type of connection what-so-ever! And this continues with the rest of them!Moving on to Vane. This dark character who's shadow is death and can instill fear on anyone around him. Whenever he has sex with women on the island, they break in half because sex with him is so overwhelming and dangerous. He doesn't like Winnie, at all. He finds her annoying. When the rest of the lost-boys are running a train on her, he is all hot and bothered, but spits in her mouth because she deserved a lesson. But no, he doesn't care for her or has shown ANY SIGN that he cares for her other than he wouldn't mind fucking her until her body splits in half and dies.That's it. That's the only thing between them. Other than that, he wouldn't care if she died after she finds the shadow for Peter Pan.But then all of a sudden, he saves her from getting her mind corrupted? Really? Again, there was 0 emotional development in the story between these two characters. So why the hell did he go from not giving a shit about her to saving her life? He never once saved the other Darlings, so why her? Oh, right. Because of the lack of character development. Made 0 sense.Then we end up finding out that there is a chest in her mother's house back on normal lands that is holding his shadow in a secret compartment. They go there and there is Brownie. A man who has kept the secret of where the shadow was this entire time and has guarded it.... and he loses the fight SO EASILY? Peter Pan just walks up to him and snaps Brownie's neck like he was just a vulnerable uncooked noodle with no fighting experience? WHERE WAS THE ACTION? LACKING LACKING LACKING. Just entirely lacking.Also, another thing. Why would they even think Tilly wanted to help them? Peter Pan killed Tinkerbell. SO WHY WOULD TILLY HELP THEM? WHAT?!? They all just trusted this woman to intrude in the Darling's memories and never once thought, "Hey, why would she even do that for us?"This book was just.... horrendously underdeveloped. It even managed 2 stars because I at least liked the idea of the story.