ARC provided by the publisher through NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.I thought this would be 3 stars but now that I'm thinking about writing the review, it's definitely 2.5 stars.TW:sexual assault, alcoholism, stalkingWhen a book is heavily focused on two characters and the relationship between them, it's really important to connect with said characters. If that doesn't happen, the book will feel like a chore to get through, and unfortunately that was the case for me here.The book switches between two timelines. We get to see how Addie and Dylan meet in the past and how their relationship starts and ends. In the present, we follow them, and three others as they take an unplanned road trip together to get to their mutual friend's wedding. I wasn't particularly interested or invested in either timeline.In the present, nothing really happens. There's a lot of pining from Addie and Dylan, but they don't do anything interesting. Fortunately, these segments were saved by Deb being awesome, Marcus being interesting, and Rodney being a cute marshmallow. Unfortunately, due to the last 30% of the book, most of these positive moments no longer seem so fun in hindsight. I do think I would've been much more invested in this book if the focus had been on Marcus instead. He was one of the more fascinating characters, and I would've loved to do a deep dive into his psyche instead of spending all this time in Addie and Dylan's heads.As for the past timeline, I found the start of Addie and Dylan's relationship more reminiscent of something I'd expect from a young adult book. It was very instalove--they're both ready to say their "I love you"s after only knowing each other for a week. In fact, after this realization come other ones, like how Addie hasn't even heard Dylan's poetry yet, and how they don't know anything about each other's families. It makes the entire setup fairly unbelievable, and this continues even as the relationship progresses. The breakup was maybe the part that felt most real, even though it took 70% to get to the crux of the matter. And even before that point, but especially after that, I just couldn't root for them to get back together. I didn't feel like they had chemistry, their relationship felt immature, and I was annoyed at all the miscommunication. The main issue of the story is apparently that Dylan isn't a mind reader, but that Addie and Marcus both wanted him to "just know" things. It was also frustrating that Dylan felt much more developed as a character than Addie. Even though we don't see it on page, we're told that he has grown as a person. There is a lot of focus on his family issues, his friends, and of course his relationship with Marcus. Meanwhile, even though Dylan moves to Addie's hometown, we never see much of her life or friends. We also don't get any indications that she had grown since they broke up, other than Dylan saying she seems different.Honestly, for most of this, I thought a romance between Addie and Marcus would be far more believable.As with The Flatshare, the author does bring up some serious issues like sexual assault, alcoholism and stalking. However, none of these are tackled with any depth. The effects are glossed over and in some cases, even made humorous.While I found Rodney extremely amusing throughout most of the book, the fact of the matter is, he's still a stalker. Even after this is revealed, it's still taken with a certain amount of humor that extends to how he is dealt with once they arrive at the wedding.The immediate effects of the sexual assault are described to us through Addie telling Dylan how she dealt with it, rather than exploring it in the past timeline. The only indication that she is still suffering from the after-effects is one comment about how sex isn't the same for her now, which is handled by Dylan saying, "we can take it slow". And I honestly can't comprehend why she would still want to be with Dylan considering how he handled the assault in the first place.Marcus's behaviour towards Addie throughout the story, but specifically the role he played in the breakup, which also included stalking her, is never satisfactorily resolved in my opinion. Sure, he apologizes, but does that simply erase everything he has done from Addie's mind? Again, all that is said about this is that Addie says it might take her a while to forgive him.