I was really excited to get an email announcing a free download for this book. I am currently waiting for the July 3rd release ofIt Must Be LoveSo this book was a nice surprise. I have read several of MA’s books, but haven’t always written a review. There are some books of hers I haven’t read yet because the premise is not what I want at the moment, but the premise of this book hooked me right away. I’m rating this 4 stars. I was not quite sold on how a family could be so cruel to their own flesh and blood, or that people supposedly close to the family didn’t see what was going on. On the other hand one just has to read the news and we do hear stories where people do get away with things much worse and no one near them realizes it until they are arrested etc..This story delivered a hefty dose of angst, which is my drug of choice. The ick factor for some people may be that the hero was with one sister first for 3 years before hooking up with the heroine.(He and the sister were on a break) Our poor heroine is up against many people thwarting her throughout the story, at least most of them get some sort of payback or undergo changes in the end. I will do an overview of the characters then go into spoilers, but I will give you fair warning of spoilers so you can skip spoilers if you want to go into the story fresh!Emilia-Our heroine is 23 years old and has always been considered the “lesser” sister. She isn’t fashionable enough, sexy enough, ambitious enough, exciting etc….She was an unplanned baby and is about 5 years younger than her beautiful vivacious sister Bianca. I am not sure why the mom hates her so much. Maybe she resented getting pregnant again. The mom’s hatred of her daughter would of course bleed over into the older daughter Bianca, who also treated Emilia terribly. Then there is the father who was pretty much hands off and let his wife handle the family matters. They would even send Emilia to live with a loving aunt in the summers, but sadly that aunt died when Em was 10. This aunt was the one to inspire Em to be an artist. Em, always looking for love would of course be her family’s personal doormat. The h has been in love with the Hero since she was 5 and he was 15. Her dad worked for his family and both of the moms were good friends.Damian- Our hero is 32 years old and successfully runs the families art galleries. He has been in a relationship with Bianca, the h’s sister for the last 3 years. There is mad passion between them(which he mistakes for true love), but with passion comes many break ups and make ups. The last break up was the final straw for the hero when he learned that Bianca was carrying on secretly with someone else. This sets up the story.Bianca(of course she is named Bianca 😂)- She is the sister from hell. Like I said the mom set the 2 sisters apart early on with her own vitriol for the heroine. Bianca is vivacious and knows how to work the masses. She has many loyal (for now) friends that back her up when she makes up lies about the heroine.Duncan- brother to the hero. He is very team Bianca…until he actually sits down and meets the heroine and realizes that she is not the villain that her family has painted her to be.Marcella Archer- Damian’s mom and family protector. She is friends with the h’s mom and Bianca. She too believes the lies about the younger daughter. She is on getting her son back with Bianca as she has been blinded by the lies of the family. Let’s just say you don’t want to cross Marcella, so this doesn’t bode well for our liars in the story.Supportive characters if the h(because otherwise this would be a really depressing story)Moana the next door neighbor and best friend. Liza, the H’s housekeeper. And the family doctor that we know as simply Doc. He is a very minor character, but has more insight than people supposedly close to the h.No cheating in the story.STOP 🛑 NOW SPOILERS ARE COMING UP NEXT STOP 🛑 🛑 SPOILER ALERTThe story opens with the h and H at the Bellagio hotel in Las Vegas. They are married and he has only been broken up with the h’s sister for a short time(month or two, maybe less?) The sex between the h and H was magical despite her virginity status. She is feeling guilty as she thinks that she has taken advantage of a drunken H and due to her unrequited love for him trapped him in a marriage. He never tells her differently. He is cold after their honeymoon night.(he was so surprised at the mind bending sex and other feelings that he pulls back) I mean he is in love with Bianca right?So what’s the real story??? He discovered that beautiful Bianca was two timing him(they were broke up, but barely plus we find out later that her cheating was at other times too) So he find out that the despised sister, our h, was going to be in Vegas . He knew she had a crush on him and decided he would sleep with her to get back at Bianca. Instead he proposed to her. He lets the h think and everyone else around them that she was the instigator of the marriage. He doesn’t let Bianca know that he knows she cheated on him.The hero does some despicable/cowardly things to our innocent sweet heroine that never has anyone in her corner all to prevent himself from giving in to his feelings for the h. Here are some of his sins:*He refuses to give her an annulment or divorce as he says it would be poor publicity, yet there is an expiration date on their marriage and he allows his family to treat her like a gold digger.*The h gets attacked by both her mother and sister in front of him and it takes him a minute to take up for the h, Now after seeing the treatment of the h this should have been a wake up call as to how hideous her family was.*He gives her the wedding rings obviously meant for the sister as they are ott and our h has simple tastes*He continues to go to Sunday lunches with the family knowing that the h’s family is all invited, except for her , his wife(his mom doesn’t want to upset Bianca)*He abandons the h at his residence at the 4 seasons, the same place he would have had her sister over multiple times(he was staying at his brother’s but the h didn’t know where he was)The mom offers the h a dream job, only to ignore her and have the h’s coworkers treat her like a leper.The H’s personal assistant goes out of her way to make the h feel inferior and doesn’t pass on any messages from the h to the H. She is consistently vilified in the press for being a slut and a home wrecker, and no one counters the claims.One of the best things the h does, is to find her backbone and reinsert it.*When the H’s brother comes to deliver a postnuptial document, she gladly tells him she doesn't want any money and hands him the wedding rings that she will never wear.*When it’s obvious that the H is keeping his distance from her, she moves back to her grotty flat because that is home to her forcing the H to come live with her(when he realizes he is developing feelings for her)*After her poor treatment at the job his mom got her, she quits without giving 2 weeks notice, and picks up a different job she was offered due to her talent.*The best is when she finds out the truth behind the H’s marriage to her and delivers several blows to the family members around her basically cutting off her family and telling the H the following:“Emilia took a deep breath. "Sign the divorce papers, Damian and get the hell out of my life."She walked to the door and turned around."You all kept saying how I'm not suited to be an Archer but if this what it means to be an Archer, to lie and cheat and manipulate? You're right, I'm not suited to be one of you. Damien, you should marry Bianca. She and you…match fucking made in Archer heaven.”The good news is that several people get their comeuppance. Her family is completely cut off in more ways than one. His family steps up and are on team Emilia, doing their best to take care of her the right way. The hero undergoes some changes as well. The h, with her love and simple living, gives the H a much better life with authentic people and rewarding life experiences.The author gives us an additional epilogue on her website. In addition to the one at the end of the story.