The Guarded One is the third book in the Falcon Falls Security series and can be read as a standalone. But I HIGHLY encourage you to read the first two books (The Hunted One and The Broken One) in the series before you read this book if you can so you can familiarize yourself with all the characters and what has happened so far with the team. If you can’t, no big deal but you will want to go back and read them after you finish this book.The Guarded One is a military romance story between two single parents who have given up on love for themselves and devoted their lives to making sure their children are well taken care for. And when their pasts have become their present, they are forced to deal with the issues at hand while saving the world one bad guy at a time and keep Team Good Guys winning.Sydney Archer is the latest addition to the Falcon Falls Security team and recently left her family’s business to become a full time member of the team. And as the only team member who has a kid, she is learning how to balance the life of an operator and single mom. Her past relationships have left her heart heavily guarded and her walls sky high and only those, who truly know her, know that she has another side to her- the softer side.Beckett Hawkins is the eldest sibling in the Hawkins family and the sheriff in his hometown, Walkins Glen, Alabama. For the past thirteen years, he has been doing his best to be the best dad & mom combo he can be to his daughter, McKenna. With the help of his family, he is able to make sure that her well-being on all fronts are taken care of, but the hole of not having a mother gets a little bigger and harder to deal with as McKenna gets older.When someone from Beckett’s past calls him for his help, Beckett enlists his brother in law, Jesse, for help. But when Jesse finds himself at the mercy of the cartel, Beckett is forced to turn to Jesse’s teammates for help and ultimately Sydney’s help. What the two of them and the team discover about Beckett’s past and what is happening now is nothing they could have ever imagined. It’s up to them and the team to put the pieces together that fate has laid out for them to find out how to help Jesse and the one who called Beckett for help.This book is ridiculously good and gives you all the feels with the thrills, twists, turns, heart melting & heart clenching moments. Oh, and those red hot spicy scenes!! The world that Brittney has created for this series along with the international missions and those on Team Bag Guys is mind blowingly amazing!! I am in awe of how she is able to put everything I know and love about a contemporary military romance and thriller with a sprinkle of dark romance and write a book that instantly becomes one of my favorites. I swear, every single book she writes gets better than the last and I for one, hope she writes forever. Lol! If my tiny humans didn’t need help or weren’t out of school for the summer, I wouldn’t have put this book down. So make sure you have lots of time to sit down and read so you can fully get lost in the world of Falcon Falls and how a bada$$ like Sydney Archer falls for the small town sheriff, Beckett Hawkins.If I keep writing this review, I will give something juicy away and I can’t spoil this book for you. But I will say this, I live for crossovers in book series and in this book, four of my favorite characters are in this book!!! Oh my goodness, the potential Easter eggs in this book have my mind churning on what will happen next in the world of Falcon Falls. I can’t wait until Book 4!!!If you haven’t realized it yet, I highly recommend this book and all the books in the Falcon Falls Security series. Do yourself a favor and get this book when it releases! You won’t regret it, I promise. This book is perfect combo of sugar, spice, action, and adventures with a few twists that keep you reading for more that is perfect for a summertime read. If you want to read more from the author, check out her Stealth Ops series and her Dublin Nights series. Those two series are awesome as well!