2024 update: I decided to rereadToday Tonight Tomorrowto get ready for the just-released sequel, [Past Present Future]. My original review is below, but to cut to the chase: This book ... this book just gave me all the feels. Rowan is a great, well-written character, and her feelings and interactions with Neil ring true at every turn. Like Rowan and Neil, my wife and I knew each other for years in school but weren’t really friends, and then fell for each other during our Senior year, so the story felt surprisingly personal in a lot of places. But it’s much more than that.Today Tonight Tomorrowreally captures the feelings and insecurities of that unique time in your life around high school graduation. When you really cared about whether or not you went to Prom or had that perfect high school girlfriend or boyfriend. When your feelings are so raw and jumbled that you keep pushing someone away because you might just be the last person to realize that you’re actually interested in them. That rush of feelings of first love, and the leap of faith you have to take just before you tell them. It’s an adorably sweet, and very funny, YA novel that will leave you happier than when you started it. Highly recommended.Original review:Opposites attract is my favorite trope, so it made sense to start there. Because, of course, the thing about opposites: they always have a lot more in common than they think.Rowan Roth has alotof things happening on her last day of high school. Will she be named valedictorian, or will that honor go to her arch rival and nemesis, Neil McNair? There’s the Howl, a game for the graduating Seniors that’s one part Senior Tag and one part scavenger hunt around Seattle. She also has plans to go to a book signing for her favorite author, a romance novelist who has inspired Rowan to write her own romance novel. And she’s feeling nostalgic about leaving Seattle for college, worried about whether her friendships will survive, and scared that her parents won’t approve of her plans to try for a career as a romance novelist.Oh, and she’s finally realizing that she might just be in love with Neil. So yeah, Rowan’s going to have a pretty dramatic 24 hours.Today Tonight Tomorrowworks especially well because it grafts a few specific ideas and themes on top of the love story. The Senior Tag/scavenger hunt creates a fun portrait of the city of Seattle (“He’s wearing Seattle’s official flag, a plaid flannel shirt”). The story also explores the experience of being Jewish in any American town or city where that is rare, and the unique challenges and choices it creates. Rowan’s interest in being a writer allows for some discussion of the emotional risks for people (especially women) who try for a career in a creative field.Finally, the fact that Rowan wants to write romance novels allows forToday Tonight Tomorrowto operate at a meta-level as a defense of romance novels as a genre. Now, I’m not sure how rare this discussion actually is. I don’t read many romance novels, but I’ve reading more of them lately because ... *gestures broadly* ... and this book is at least the third one (alsoBeach ReadandThe Bromance Book Club) that has this discussion. Is every romance novel so defensive? Just the good ones that get popular enough that I read them? Or maybe just the ones that are themselves about romance novels? Anyway, for what it’s worth, I thought this book offered the best explanation of the merits of romances, summed up in a single sentence: “They’re fun, and they’re emotional, and they have better character development than most other books out there.”But the last couple of paragraphs, while true, have over-complicated this review. This book ... this book just gave me all the feels. Rowan is a great, well-written character, and her feelings and interactions with Neil ring true at every turn. Like Rowan and Neil, my wife and I knew each other for years in school but weren’t really friends, and then fell for each other during our Senior year, so the story felt surprisingly personal in a lot of places. But it’s much more than that.Today Tonight Tomorrowreally captures the feelings and insecurities of that unique time in your life around high school graduation. When you really cared about whether or not you went to Prom or had that perfect high school girlfriend or boyfriend. When your feelings are so raw and jumbled that you keep pushing someone away because you might just be the last person to realize that you’re actually interested in them. That rush of feelings of first love, and the leap of faith you have to take just before you tell them. It’s an adorably sweet, and very funny, YA novel that will leave you happier than when you started it. Highly recommended.