I wanted to read this to support Amber. I forced myself to read it because I was sitting on a train for more than 2 hours and had nothing else to entertain myself with.Right from the start this was not fun for me. Like I said in one of my updates, the general plot wasn’t really for me because I don’t really love instant love or romances about quick flings but my dislike for this goes deeper than that. We immediately see that this is written in the opposite of show don’t tell. Nothing is described for us and we just get statements on how things are or lists of what the characters are doing. Some sentences are very choppy and have THREE words. The descriptions of our characters’ skin tones is annoying because I don’t want to read about someone’s caramel/cocoa/almond skin color. There were entire paragraphs throughout the book dedicated entirely to describing what the characters were wearing. If this was 2013 (and the book reads like it was written by a teenager in 2013), each outfit would come with a polyvore link. Also not a fan of the way the characters talked to each other. I don’t think real people have conversations like that and some conversations really made me laugh because of how ridiculous they were. There were many things teased along the way of being serious problems but when Samantha tried to get more information, someone else would say “it’s not my place to tell” and we wouldn’t find out. After hearing this so many different times about different topics, the anticipation was so built up for massive drama and then I would be disappointed by the big reveal.Moving on to the characters. Romance aside because I just felt like everything was rushed into a one week timeline, I just didn’t care for Roman. Samantha’s character also felt like she had no direction or depth. I think if we had more descriptions of her actions rather than direct statements, this could’ve helped. There were also way too many side characters in this that I struggled to remember each of them and their role/relationship to our main character. On top of that, each side character brought their own problems that had to be solved and somehow Samantha was the one responsible for solving them, even for people she just met. And then these problems would be quickly resolved because those characters couldn’t clearly communicate without Samantha’s help. Samantha and her friends just don’t seem like people who should be friends based on how much they keep hidden from each other and how they keep gossiping about each other.Overall, I did not enjoy this and I really wished I did. Genuinely want to know if this was edited and if so, maybe Amber needs to find a new editor if this is a career she wants to continue.