The h hits the road after she realizes that her family has put her in an untenable situation with the H. A little background: In this MC, when female children of members turn 18 they are given four choices: They can become prostitutes (club whores), teen brides ( old ladies ), murderers (become club members) or leave their homes and find their own way, only being allowed to see their family and former friends a few times a year on "family days.Her father is high up in the club, but isn't around and has never bothered to give her any sort of ideas of what options might be open to her at 18. She assumes she's going to have to leave. She's unaware that her dad has asked the H to to make the her his old lady. Her dad has also told the H that he doesn't care if he cheats on his daughter; he just needs to marry her so that she doesn't have to leave the club.The H, who really doesn't want to do this but is risking his patch if he doesn't, proposes to the h at the absolute last moment. He does it in a really insulting offhand way and then has sex with her best friend and another woman that same evening in front of her. By the way, forewarned is forearmed: the sex scene is just terribly gross, not because it has two women together, but because the " best friend " doesn't want to do this really, she just wants to hurt someone, so she finds herself doing something sexually she has zero interest in doing and you can tell that she is just not into it.The h is horrified and hurt and naturally declines and prepares to leave the club. She gets a reprieve when she goes to live with a nearby uncle, but she decides that she is going to save her money and get the f out of town because she hates all of these people now. She works really really hard for a year and has no social life and rarely shows up at club events using her multiple jobs as an excuse. When she takes off, the club sends someone after her to track her to make sure she's safe since she is the child of a club leader. The original person trailing her is the H, who is resentful of that but since he lost his patch he has to do this sort of probational activity. The H tracks her for a while, but then has to return home because of illness in his family. During the time that he tracks the h he falls in love with her because she is super awesome. He just didn't realize it and wasn't ready for commitment. In fact, he was so unready for commitment that he only would have sex with two women so that no one woman could ever feel like she was special to him. Truly, he was a delight.A new probational member comes to track the h and reports back to the club that the h is doing well and that she has fallen in love with a handsome older man and has lost her virginity to him. The H is furious about this and blames the h for having an affair with a married man, as if there was any possible way that she knew this.The H is upset about being involved with a married man, but he did leave her with a valuable gift, specifically the advice to invest in cryptocurrency and guidance on how to continue to grow her money. She is a millionaire as a result and therefore has much more leisure to continue to travel.She stays on the road for a few more years, only keeping her uncle up to date on where she is. He says that he will keep her secret but that he will eventually call in this favor. He does, and she returns to the MC. She finds that a lot of things have changed; however, the most important thing is that she has changed. She has continued to invest her cryptocurrency money, so she is very wealthy. This gives her a lot of confidence even though she doesn't flash her money, she knows she has resources if she needs to use them for anything.Although the h does eventually accept the H, it's not without a lot of proof that he has changed. He makes mistakes, and she cracks the whip immediately. When she doesn't make him suffer for it, it always appears to be a choice made with the implied understanding that because she has so much money, she will just walk away if he does anything that pushes her too far. Therefore any of the concessions that she makes come from a position of power, rather than some sort of weakness.I would recommend this book because of the strong h, her position of power, and because the circumstances that she fights her way through are very interesting.