Surprised to see the array of 4/5 star reviews. I consider myself to be pretty conservative/fair in my reviews but, with that being said, I did not connect with this story whatsoever. I probably should give it a one star but I’ll go with two.To start off, I normally enjoy reading stories from this author. I fully intended to love this story or, at the least, be invested in it, even if it wasn’t my cup of tea. Neither was the case, I had to force myself to finish and this was a very short story compared to some of the novels I typically read.I couldn’t connect with either main character and I couldn’t even tell why they liked one another, other than the fact they both loved the color black. Just zero chemistry besides sexual.Milo is obsessed with Lissie from the first time he sees her, no idea why. She hardly had a personality from my stand point and her character seemed to change chapter to chapter. At first she was a shy, timid woman who wouldn’t leave her husband because he had dirt on her sister but then once he abuses her she leaves and she is no longer worried about the previous reasons she stayed? Not sure - just didn’t follow it at all. She went from being a pushover to standing up for herself and having attitude over night, just didn’t see the growth for that to truly have happened. She just flip flopped too much for me. At one point she was adamant that she wouldn’t cheat on her husband and sleep with someone else until the divorce was finalized but then the next chapter she is hooking up with Milo with no regret and no reference as to why she had the change in heart. Trust me, she had no reason to feel guilty but idk why she was so adamant about not cheating in the first place.Then we have Milo, who got a BJ from another women at the start, while in the same vicinity as Lissie, and also refers to women he fucks fairly often. Instant ick factor for me. Outside of that, he was rough around the edges and I just didn’t see what there was to love about him - he was pretty much an asshole for majority of the book. He constantly is pushing Lissie away and then hooking up with her and then pushing her away again - all under the guise that it’s in her best interest.The story was rushed - maybe that’s what made this feel inauthentic. So many plot holes/unexplained situations that I was constantly getting frustrated. For example, Lissie wants to leave her hometown and, on her 26th birthday, she comes into money left to her from her mother. As a part of this, she realizes she had a father interested in meeting her. Instead of just visiting him and coming back and weighing her options, she just straight moves out there. Like did she even consider other cities to live in? Seemed so premature. Then she eventually moves back - why you ask? No idea. All we know is she got her old house back in the divorce. Not sure why she couldn’t just sell it. We really have no idea about her time in the new city - it’s completely skipped over other than one weekend visit her friends have (where Milo has something to tell her that will make her hate him and she doesn’t even push to know what it is - she just wants to deal with it after they have sex). Idk so many plot holes and then they randomly throw in that Cody murdered Lettie - Cody was a real piece of shit but it just didn’t make sense and felt sooo haphazardly thrown in there.I don’t know - just couldn’t connect with his book and could go on for ages about my issues with it.