This makes me so sad but I was HIGHLY disappointed in this book by this author and nothing she's ever written before has been below a 3 star.Her books are short. Fast. Hard hitting. Betrayal and grovel but usually with kick butt females who don't sit around waiting for the loser jerks to figure their shit out. They're highly entertaining at least in my opinion.This novella (69 pages) follows Jessie (M) and Josie (F). Josie is a teacher, Jessie is newly signed NHL hockey star. They've been together 5 years since junior year of college.Josie somehow, even while teaching 5th grade has never missed a single same of Jessies. College, minor league, and now NHL games. She's spent hours watching him practice.Book opens to Josie going to a nice restaurant expecting a proposal. It's emphasized she's "curvy" but honestly I felt like the author was just calling her fat and heavy with "big tits, round ass, fat stomach and thighs" and long brunette hair.As she's walking up she sees Jessie through the window with this super hot, super skinny, big boobed, blonde instagram model who also happens to be the NHL teams PR specialist, Taylor. Her and Jessie have gotten "real close" the last few months. They're whispering in each other's ear and comforting each other.Josie immediately knows somethings wrong. She goes in and just knows. Jessie does the "we need to talk" spiel. He wants to take time apart. He's busy lately. He's going to be gone with the team a lot.What else was he planning to upgrade?“Are you cheating on me?” I asked directly.Jesse’s eyes bugged out, and I saw a muscle twitch in his jaw. His hands gripped the restaurant table tightly. “No. No.”I didn’t want to know, but I had to know.“Is there someone else then?”His eyes flicked away from me then, and I knew. Jesse never could lie to me.“I never cheated on you,” he said, like that was supposed to make me feel better, I guess. “But there is someone else. She just—I think she fits with my lifestyle better.”That's right folks. He dumps her for a hotter model after 5 years mere WEEKS after he signs with a professional team and goes pro. Goes on to say he doesn't think she'll fit in with his new lifestyle (translation: she's fat and uglier than Taylor).THIS IS DEFINITELY CHEATING AUTHOR. HE HAD A NEW GIRLFRIEND BEFORE HE DUMPED THE OLD ONE. EMOTIONAL WHATEVER, IT'S CHEATING.Jesse offers to let her take her time moving out of HIS apartment and if she needs money for a down payment hewon't even make her pay him back as a gift to her!What a nice guy! Sarcasm.Jessie moves back in with her parents. She cries for weeks. She commutes to work now and no longer lives close to her school. She stalks Jesse x Taylor on social media watching them date and become the newest "IT" couple. This goes on for a year. They go to movie premiers, out on dates at expensive resturants, do cute little dances and couply things together, he buys her outlandish gifts ilke diamond earrings (but never did Josie, she paid for all her own expenses), takes her on lavish vacations like trips to Aspen (but never did with Josie), do fit checks together. It's nauseating. There's even talk of an engagement coming up.5 years with Josie = dumped1 year with Taylor = engagementAfter a year, she finally starts moving on.Stops watching them on TikTok or social media. Goes on a few dates, and hooks up in a FWB situation with her old college friend Bryan. She refuses to date him though because Jesse stomped on her heart and can't be with someone yet.It's now been over a year with no word from Jesse since that fateful night he dumped herwhen randomly, Jesse texts Josie saying can we talk? I miss you. No lead up. Nothing in between.She rightfully blocks him.The next day, Josie goes to school only to be stopped by the principals who tell her that Philadelphia Heat (Jesse's team) contacted their Elementary school and they all get free VIP tickets to a game but ONLY IF Josie's 5th grade class gets to go first. Essentially, she's forced into a corner.When they go to the game, Jesse is right there next to the ice trying to talk to Josie and throwing a fit when she doesn't want to talk to him. SHE'S WITH AN ENTIRE CLASS OF KIDS AND HER BOSSES! After the game, they are then led to the locker room and a tour of the facility. All against her will but she can't say no because ya know, kids are excited and this is her job.Even better while Jessie is all please talk to me, let me explain, Jo Bug please, TAYLOR walks in on them talking. Karel (teammate) interrupts them so Josie can escape. Karel, the teammate hits on Josie and Josie gives him her number out of spite since Jesse will not take the hint.Yay! A FMC that isn't a pushover... or is she?Instead of respecting her wishes, Jesse follows her home TO HER PARENTS HOUSE, and her dad and brother try to fight him (another yay!). He also brings her Polish baked goods. They all tell him to leave. Repeatedly. He refuses. Repeatedly.For real, this dude hasn't said one word to her in over a year, dated another woman publicly then all in 48 hours has fucked with her job, followed her while she was on a field trip then followed her home.Jesse finally gets to tell Josie he made a mistake and he wants her back. He was deluding himself with Taylor and he was a moron. He still loves her and always has. He's also super sad her family hates him now because his parents are dead and Josie's parents loved him like a son.So fucking what? Bro is here telling her only AFTER he was with Taylor for a year, only AFTER he lived a high lifestyle with 60k watches, new cars, a new condo, a life on TikTok and fancy restaurants while she was paying off student loans and living with her parents and only AFTER he also fucked SEVERAL OTHER WOMEN BESIDES TAYLOR does he want her back because "it's not the same". He now knows he can't live without her, because he already tried. Only now he suddenly doesn't care about his image or being with "someone like her" because those other women weren't her. GAG.Then how does this end?Oh she 100% takes him back whiplash fast.Remember this book is only 69 pages.He shows up on her date with Karel and ruins it.His POS ex girlfriend Taylor shows up, insults her looks, and tells her Jesse wasfucking annoyingbecause he was casual with her for months (while screwing others) and she had to work TOO hard to get him to be with her (Uhh he left Josie FOR HER) and that he used to bring Josie up in conversations so by that little nugget, Taylor thinks Jesse never got over Josie and even accuses Josie of "cheating" with Jesse while he was with Taylor.Huh?? Was this scene supposed to make readers more sympathetic towards Jesse? Because it doesn't work. In fact, this scene just makes Jessie look like more of a clown.Remember, he didn't reach out once in over a year. She didn't block him for months. But we're supposed to feel sorry for him or the whore that stole him from his longtime girlfriend because he'd bring her up in conversation once in awhile?Jesse also shows up when Josie's with her FWB friend Bryan and ruins that too. Threatens him and gets all Alpha male because she slept with someone after HE dumped HER.How many women did he sleep with while they were apart? Hmmmm.Basically, his next moves are to donate money to her school for new supplies like laptops, a new copier and e-readers so he can show how "he's supporting her career" even though he never did before, shows up at her parents house repeatedly, does some outside chores for her parents and won't leave, eventually camps out in a tent in her front yard until she feels bad for him because it's freezing/snowing outside and invites him in (in which then he tries to sleep with her) then get this.....The family dog escapes during a winter storm. Jesse goes out looking for the dog and brings him home covered in snow. Instant forgiveness.Taadaaaaaaa! That's this bitches grovel. That the author promised was super epic. WRONG.He won't leave her alone, buys things for the school with his money now that he's a millionaire and saves a dog. Cute? Sure. Enough grovel? HELL NO.A year later they're married and he's winning Best Male Athlete of the Year. Whoopdeedo.There's not even a conversation about what he did while he was apart from her. Did he bag 20 women? 40? Practice safe sex? Did she? Why did he dump her like that? Was he already with Taylor since she was THERE with him? How will this time be different? We don't get enough fleshed out responses or answers. No conversations on how he could just dump her flat then pick back up after a year.Grovel? Epic grovel? Down on the floor crying and humbled like the author promises? Give me a break.This was WAY too fast. Didn't flesh out well. Was NOT enough grovel for what this vain man child did and in NO way was I satisfied with them getting back together.Bad book? Absolutely not. It's too short to be that bad. It's entertaining but the author fell really flat with delivering on her promises.